Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiast where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:46  
Hello, and welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Science Show". In this episode, I interviewed Dr. Yury Kashnitsky, data scientist at KPN in the text analytics group. The setup for this interview is slightly different we will be talking about ML course not AI instead of Yury's journey, but I promise we'll try to have Yury again on the show to talk about his journey. So please stay tuned or subscribe for a episode due later. ML course dot AL spelled mlcourse.AI, is an open machine learning goes by the open data science community. The course is designed to have a perfect balance between theory and practice. It will also have a lot of Kaggle in class competitions that will be held during the live course. The next and this will be the final session of this course launches on September 2 2019, which is in about nine days so you can still register for the course. You can find all of the details in the description of this podcast or you can just go to the course website to register. In this interview, we talk a lot about the course, the course setup and course structure. The efforts that went into creating the course and the course modules. Yury is also kind enough to share many great advices for both people who are looking to get started with this course and people who have completed the course and looking to get a break into the field of data science. I also want to request for a call of action from the listener. If you want to sign up for the course, please do so or please help us spread the word. I'm a huge fan of the course. And you can find a Twitter thread and a LinkedIn post linked in the description of this podcast. Please share it with people who you believe might benefit from this course or were interested in learning all about machine learning. Now, here's the conversation with Yury all about mlcourse.AI. Please enjoy the show and remember to sign up for it because this will be the last live iteration of the course before it turns into a self paced, themed online course. Enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:08  
Hello, Dr. Yury Kashnitsky. Thank you so much for taking the time to do this. I'm really excited to talk to have you on the show and talk all about ML course.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  3:17  
Oh, yes. My pleasure. Dr. Kashnitsky.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:22  
Yeah, so the setup for for our listeners and viewers the setup for this interview slightly different. We will be talking about mlcourse.AI instead of Yury's journey, but I promise we'll have him again on the show sometime later on. Before we start talking about the course content and all things ML course. I'd like to know more about the professor if I may of ML course co so could you tell us more about your current day job. So you're a data scientist at KPN and in the text analytics group. Could you tell us more about what the problems you're working on?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  3:56  
Your sure So currently, I'm at K Can in the Netherlands in Amsterdam in a telecom operator. So this KPN is the main talking operator in Netherlands. And so I'm there in a text analytics group. So basically, there is a big challenge. So customers report a lot of stuff via chats, calls, emails, whatever chats, including chat boards. And so basically, it's a huge, huge NLP challenge to extract some meaning from all the these bots of all these terabytes of information, not actually hundreds of gigabytes. But still, there's a lot of data to extract different problems that customers report technical issues, or just some sentiments. Oh, well, unfortunately, it's in Dutch. But I moved to this country so through some more motivation for me to to learn Dutch. Yeah, at the same time, we play around with different architectures. So testing all this stuff. state of the art models like lingard, it's actually a huge challenge for them to work in Dutch as well. So it's not only a challenge for human for non Dutch speaker, but also for models. So I'm also leading transfer learning club here in the open data science community. And so we try to actually make it sort of work in production. So developing best practices on using state of the art transformers in almost production ready, and all the pipelines.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:28  
Got it. It's super interesting. I'd like to delve more into it. But we'll maybe talk about it again later later in another interview. So when you started your machine learning journey, there wasn't a mlcourse.AI. Could you tell us your favorite courses before ML course existed? And do you think like if someone followed ML course or maybe if you had the chance to follow this course, they could create their break into the field as a data scientist.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  5:58  
Yep, okay. So so it was better In spring 2013, I had to finish my master's studies. And while I suffered from a lack of good ideas, and it was a time of huge procrastination, and so actually I found Andrew Angie's machine learning course by Stanford on Coursera. Well, and I never regret so it was really magnificent. So Andrew Angie's really charismatic person. So he describes ML very in just really, really good. So with he delivers all this ideal ideas why ML's is really important in our life. And he just explains all the stuff in such an intuitive way that you just at some point, click and you just understand. Yeah, so shall I recommend his course right now. I adopted. So just if you want to follow one of the Eventually, then for sure, but, of course is already a bit outdated. So even living alone octave language, which is really popular right now, even regardless of that, actually there is nothing about decision trees, random forests and gradient boosting. So this topic is completely ignored in his course. And well, if you take gradient boosting liji bammo extra boost, these are pretty famous libraries, which are used in data. So, at the time, it was this course was was really cool. Oh, right now, I would say there are more practical courses out there and so yeah, including an old course. Of course. Yeah, so definitely if you wants to follow a charismatic leader like Andrew Ng and if you want to know machine learning described in the really general way, then then for sure, this course is still is still really cool, but for some more in depth theory and and modern practice at the same time. Yeah, I would say join ML course today.

Sanyam Bhutani  8:11  
Sure thing. I am sure many people are signing up already. But before we talk about the mind blowing results from the community and the audience for the course I'd love to talk more about the content and the efforts behind it. So maybe like if you could explain to us why did you feel there was a need to create a malkos and there are plenty of courses out there already in 2019. So where does mlcourse.AI come into the picture?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  8:38  
Um, yeah, so actually, I started teaching machine learning as a teaching assistant in a university while pursuing my PhD degree at the same time, and so I just liked machine learning. So it's just so yeah, especially the theoretical part is just such a such a beauty in between math and programming. And so gradually, I started developing my own machine learning material in order to, to teach at some point in the university. And at the same time, I was developing my theoretical ML skills while doing my PhD degree. 

Sanyam Bhutani  9:18  
Yeah.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  9:18  
It's more in, in the domain of applied Math, but still I sort of tried to, to find some, some ML topic of which, which you can attack with with these techniques. And so at the same time, I started enlarging my social network. So PhD studies is really good for that. And yeah, and I got to know some some people who, who actually helped me starting teaching machine learning and data science in corporations, so in telecom operators and banks, and well, this actually helped me financially so at the time, I was full time in my PhD studies. So I just dropped full time job though. I just dropped the business intelligence that I did during my master's took it. I just decided yeah, that's, I don't see any any horizon in 20 years. So I would say doing business intelligence, my future was so predictable that I never regret regret that I actually dropped it in favor of PhD studies. And so yeah, gradually, I started collecting material on machine learning. So I started teaching in this university, Higher School of Economics in corporations, some online courses as well. Like I would say, smaller version. So for modern Mlcourse.ai. So, at some point will I joined open data science community is also known as ods.ai. And we just came to an idea. So I just initiated an idea that we can collect some materials that we have. So at the time, I've already got some pile of useful Jupyter notebooks. So why don't we just grab it, dig it into this and just deploy it in some in some real nice way in a way of in a form of articles. So at first it was in Russian and so we we decided to write 10 article articles based on my online materials. And then the same point we we decided to to make a small competition, a small course with assignments with public leaderboard. And so we started off with some 500 participants, and then we collected feedback. And actually, this part with with the leaderboard introduced a lot of gamification, so just just like Kaggle.

Sanyam Bhutani  11:48  
Yeah

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  11:49  
So so we had a common rating and all the assignments, all the competitions, they actually influenced and upgraded this rating and it's turned on It's something unique, so you don't see it in other courses. You know, well, yeah. So in on Kaggle, you've got it in every competition, but some common rating for for the whole course. It's something unique. Now turned out it was really, really motivating. So people mentioned it. Yeah. Especially if you're in the top of this reading it. Yeah, actually, yeah, it makes you keep up to go on. And maybe at the same time, it can be demotivating if you're if you're a summary of the table, but maybe small kickoff, and then decided to make some more iterations. And oh, well, then we incorporate with Kaggle. So officially, we just introduced some candolyn plus competitions. And this yeah, helped us a lot. So we found some real nice balance between theory and practice.

Sanyam Bhutani  12:58  
Like even to me, like many people sign up for courses for the certification. But I think it's also mentioned in the website that your standing will be immortalized if you are in the top hundred rankings of the course. So I think it's one of the unique courses that does that.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  13:15  
Yeah, for sure. So we don't issue certificates. So honestly, I just think it's useless. Well, of course, yeah, it's some proof of work. So some, some people would like to show their certificates. Well, if you both have knowledge, and you can support this knowledge with certificates event, for sure showing the certificate, it's okay. But if you don't have some particular knowledge, but showing the certificate it can, it can be only can only make it worse. Yeah, just in case don't your certificate better better prove it with your knowledge. I would say this is a part of our philosophy. So we just share knowledge and We don't issue certificates. But it yes, some people would like to mention their mlcourse.AI position in the final rating. So we just have this leaderboard published on on the website.

Sanyam Bhutani  14:13  
That's, that's really amazing. So I'd also like to discuss about the effort that went into the course for you. So like you mentioned you were enrolled in a Ph.D program, and right now you also working in a full time job. So could you tell us like, what kind of efforts go into the course? Like, what kind of efforts do you put in for creating the course you don't exactly monetize the course either. So I'm also curious, like, why did you decide to keep it open even after actually investing a lot of time into it?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  14:42  
Now it's harder old face. Yeah. Because, yeah, of course, it takes a lot of effort. So for some two or three months, it might be my part time job. Maybe 20 hours per week, okay. So actually never counted. Almost precisely because I was pretty happy with this with this work with this occupation. At the same time, I would like to underline that it's not only my effort. I've already enrolled some 70 folks into organizing mo courses as well, maybe half of them do translation will help with translation of the material from Russian into English. But yeah, I would like to underline that it's a course done within ods.ai. And leading, leading it so maybe some 60% of effort is on my side, but still, it's the course developed within the open date science community, as well. So as for monetization, well, the whole idea is that the course is open. And here I can make a small detour into open date science how, how cool this communities, so many people know this community for Kaggle but yeah, probably you discussed this topic in your previous podcasts with Andrey: Artgor and Vladmir Iglovikov, aka Ternaus, also known as tournelles. Oh, yes, indeed, you can find a lot of highly qualified people in the open data science. So it's not only about Kaggle, it's also about different cool libraries developed within open data science. And if you just have questions, in your day to day data science job, you can just ask your question in open data science slack channel, and then you can get, you can get really invaluable help. 

Sanyam Bhutani  16:36  
Yeah.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  16:37  
So yeah, we've got a lot of open activities. So we support some ideas of open science, open libraries, and so on. And so of course, the mlcourse.ai is, is driven within this, this philosophy. So it's by default, it's open and free. Yeah, and I think if it was gonna open it wouldn't get wouldn't have gotten so much support, including some, some PR from Kaggle CEO, Anthony Goldbloom. So yeah, I would think I would say that people are would like to share information about this course and promoted. Especially keeping in mind that it's that it's free. Yep. So yeah, and there are some some expensive, high quality courses. But the idea is that the idea that you have something much and free, that's what attracts people. Well, actually we collect some more donations on Patreon and to Koh Phi. I would say it's not really serious. It's, yeah, we we launched two sessions per year. So some two three months sessions and after each session know we collect donations at some, maybe two 3000 you're a weapon for the whole team you're working part time. It's almost nothing but still at yeah, I pay some some T's. This money goes to support to pay for the domain for domain to for the website and songs. Yeah, so I would say almost for free for for;

Sanyam Bhutani  18:23  
Interesting. I also like to quote like, based on what I know other organizations that do monetize their content make in the order of hundreds of thousands of dollars. So in that order of magnitude, and also if, as from what I know, you don't really push the patreon it's really there for people who would like to contribute or like to donate. That's also really amazing about the course.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  18:46  
Yeah, some some people are really grateful. So when they get their first two data science positions after taking this course, yeah, they're they're eager to pay back. It's not only about money, so they I see that people are really open for collaboration. So after finishing mlcourse.ai they joined as teaching assistance or or they join in improving course material and so on. So yeah, they feel that the community gave them something and then they can pay back with some more effort with some new activities. Yeah, so including our goal, let's say Andrew, and we can go as and as an example so he actually finished the course and a it was a call for me to see that yeah, people develop their skills and then they become artists, members and casual members one day yeah, they they pay back to that means is tenfold or more.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:46  
That's amazing. Artgor is the king of Kaggle kernels, l will have his podcast also linked in the description. So this is a plug for an interview that I've done with him for the audience if you'd like to listen to that. But now again, coming by to mlcourse I'd like to talk more about the content. So the course is dubbed as quote unquote learning machine learning the hard way. Could you maybe speak to the philosophy for this tagline? And why? Why is this tagline being used?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  20:16  
Yeah, well, so, what makes mlcourse.ai different is that we, I guess we we managed to find the right balance between theory and practice. So I used to be a purely theoretical guy. So we are the oldest PhD studies and I can really enjoy ML theory. And yeah, I purchased some courses, including Coursera, edX and all these other platforms. So we can basically easily find an academic ML course where they discuss VC dimensions, or maybe some k means feeding time and complexity or some other cool theoretical topics. Or, on the contrary, you can pick up Kaggle learn where honestly just ignore theory and attack machine learning as if it were a bunch of Python libraries. So, I would say the objective was to, to give some practical skills, a lot of assignments, personal projects, candle competitions, and so on. So, the course is really focused on practice, but at the same time, we would like to give theoretical basis so for people to understand the theoretical grounds of algorithms which they use in their day to day job. And of course, of course doing both at the same time is, is hard. A lot of effort from from students. That's why our motto learn ML the hard way. Yeah, and well, if you manage to pass the course then then it will pay back to you maybe tenfold.

Sanyam Bhutani  21:59  
Yeah, got it. So the courses divided into I think, a 12 week structure that is highlighted as four modules in the website, which are eta decision trees, random forests and gradient boosting. Thirdly, linear classification and regression models. And finally unsupervised learning, online learning and time series. So could you enlighten us about these modules? And what made you converge on these? Or what made you include these in the course?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  22:29  
Yep, so yeah, actually, I wouldn't like to say that it's our official syllabus. Yeah. So this topic so surely offers but they lack of the things the machine learning like cross validation feature selection, or maybe you just regression is not underlined? Well, you know, classification and regression, but yeah, maybe it lacks some steps like dimensionality reduction and so on. So basically, we started with 10 topics, covering all the basic things that from exploratory data analysis to gradient boosting, I would say right away that we don't cover neural nets. So it's, yeah, it's worth another another course and specialization. So yeah, I will tell you that we just cover basic amount. Now I yeah, I just decided to group all the topics in four models. So firstly, it's exploratory data analysis. Again, I can refer to your talk with Andrew, about the importance of EDA. No, yeah. So, basically, you when you get your data, when you start solving some problem, you you get insights, you you plot different figures, you you try to get some intuition about the data. And then, at some point, maybe you come up with some insights which help you with features or maybe even your You might decide that you don't need much learning your project yet. So if you via exploratory data analysis, you make come up with some heuristics. And that will be good enough. Yeah. Because, of course, in the real work you need, you need to optimize accuracy and time to production, the time for spent on developing the plan, just a notebook or a serious model deployed to production. Yeah. And so EDA sometimes can lead to really important hypothesis, then, basically your your work in cooperation with the data analysts, and then you can share your findings and then they can check some hypotheses for you. So EDA is crucially important. And as a good example of Artgor's kernels, just really good in terms of EDA.

Sanyam Bhutani  24:53  
Yeah. 

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  24:55  
So then secondly, decision trees, so it's a big family of decision tree based methods. So including random forest and different types of gradient boosting. Oh yeah, I would say this is really important because it's it's heavily used in day to day job. So when you have tabular data with all sorts of features, numeric categorical, binary, so all types of features, then typically Britain boosting will work really well. And an extra the same for linear models, the third model, so I would say some I guess, according to Kaggle data science survey 90% of data scientists actually use logistic regression in their day to day job. Yeah, it's not surprising because it's a simple baseline. And of course, you need to check it if you work with texts. them for sure. logistic regression, if it if it's just the first reasonable baseline. It was. Yeah, yeah. So actually, I usually just permission in public action. On my previous jobs I used gradient boosting in production. So it's really cool to come from to start with theoretical basics of these algorithms and then gradually to, to to study modern tools like ledger bammo, cat boost, and then actually use these models in competitions and then further in personal projects or production. So, yeah, as for linear models, we Yeah, of course, it's a very, very popular topic and it's studied in different communities, statisticians, study linear models, very thoroughly done. It's used econometrics, I would say that here we use, we stick to machine learning perspective. So if you further further plan to study neural nets, then many things will be familiar for you after taking more courses to do so. In particular, as for logistic regression, we just treated in a way as a Yeah, a shallow neural network. So we, we convey this material in there purely ML perspective. So basically, studying neural nets would be a reasonable next step. 

Sanyam Bhutani  27:15  
Got it.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  27:16  
Yeah. As for the last module, yeah, I would say combines all the other topics, so we can call it the rest. But of course, it's also very important tasks. So we discussed unsupervised learning. So how it's different from from other tasks. So what can you do when you will not have labeled data? Then we discuss how l algorithmically kills large datasets, including several gigabytes. And yeah, in one of the homework assignments, you'll be actually working with some 10 gigabytes of data with just with a usual laptop without any Hadoop cluster. So these two vocal limiter, is it just blazingly fast. So we again we discussed theoretical basics how it's even possible, and then actually practical implementations? And then yeah, then finally time series. Yeah, it's heavily used in the industry. And then we we also go through all these nitty gritty details how it's theoretically different from classification or regression. And what tools do we have out there to solve time serious tasks?

Sanyam Bhutani  28:24  
Got it. So to talk more about the structure, I think ml courses unique maybe fast a sort of follows this in one way. But there's this unique structure way we can also, I think, this time, we can interact with you in a live stream and the team from ODS is also pretty active, where we can ask questions and all and then there's this heavy orientation towards calgon. So just curious, like what made you pick this unique design for for this course, compared to like completely different ones from others?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  28:57  
Oh, yeah, we're just started with the score in the open data science community, and so we just noticed that yeah, we as course authors and lecturers were also there in that channels were ready to help you. Of course, it took a lot of time. But then we were just noticed that students are really, really involved. So I would say that we have a really low churn rate. So almost one quarter of all students who's who actually sign up for the course then they successfully finish so one one quarter, it's it's really impressive compared to Coursera. They were, I don't know the retention is some 1% or even less. Yeah, so yeah, we are we're in the same channel in the open data science, slack community, we're helping people and they feel really, really engaged so and the community itself so there's a lot of humoral all in different jobs are right there. In In the channel, if it also helps. So I also include some means, in my lecture material, if it's really, really informal, maybe sometimes it'd be toxic. But still, it's it's very, very alive. So as compared to other specializations it's a it's a huge adventure because for in other specialization, I just noticed how forums just at some point, go go dead, so they're not supported anymore. And so and so then we we made several iterations of the course so then we decided to, to put more stress on Kaggle and together with this, I would say simple but unique idea of a public leaderboard helps during the course. Yeah, this all together and made it specifically it made the course unique and memory alive. And so yeah. We went on sticking to this format. So going on with a course in this in this community, and I guess it's really worked well.

Sanyam Bhutani  31:10  
Got it. I'm definitely a huge fan of the nerdy culture, if I may, the means and also, I do really enjoy that. So I'd also like to ask you, how can a beginner best utilize these materials? So if you were to put yourself in the shoes of a beginner, how would you suggest that they approach the material? How, how should they distribute their time and efforts?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  31:34  
Yeah, so first of all, I think I didn't mention yet prerequisites. Yeah, so the course is. So it does involve some math. So we state math as prerequisites. But so, it sort of the basic so if you if you studied in the university, then basics of analysis, calculus, linear algebra statistics that can sound familiar. If not, then you can quickly refresh it or in the worst case, you can just skip all the theoretical part. Yeah, you won't get some credits but whatever. And you can just focus on on practical side. The vital prerequisite is some basic Python skills. So being able to write a loop or a class, but it's it's simple. If you just pick up Code Academy or some very simple interactive, then you can get acquire necessary skills and just fix so it's not a problem with their with these prerequisites in mind. You enter the slack community and you see a lot of messages. So somewhere in the beginning of the course, it's really easy to to be lost in all in all this information.

Sanyam Bhutani  32:59  
It will be overwhelming sometimes.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  33:01  
Oh yeah, but you can just follow mlcourse.AI news channel in slack community and we we make announcements and we give really clear instructions in each assignment so we've got a lot of videos and articles and so on, but in each in each assignment we particularly state that you need to first study these are this article on decision trees then answer these questions and agrees then fulfill this assignment. So I would say the instructions are pretty clear. And again, in any case, just ask your questions in community in this mlcourse.AI channel and they will definitely help. And, yeah, of course, googling very good advice, but but Nvidia even you even when we cover a lot of essential topics, still we yeah, we cannot give all the material in three months. That's why we also had tutorials. So students were able to write their own tutorials and to extend course material. Let's see covering some, some library for for feature selection, let's say ML extend. If it's not covered in our course, then why not write in a tutorial, and we, we've seen a really positive feedback about these tutorials. So actually, people are not intimidated with sharing knowledge. Even though you're started as a newbie, then, in two months, you're really able to take some small topic and to write about why not.

Sanyam Bhutani  34:44  
Yep, that's, that's great advice. So if you could maybe speak of one favorite student success story from the course.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  34:55  
Oh, success stories. Yeah, I guess Now we have some maybe 3200 aluminous so people who successfully finished the course of I know maybe a couple of dozens tourists how people got their first data science jobs of the mission mo course today. I think we can just go and discuss it later they of course it's not enough to get a data science job but it might cover a center essential ML skills that they asked in interviews. Let me think so if to pick up just one story, me I remember when I defended my PhD degree, I, I invited my my mom to this to the whole process. Yeah, of course, she was really impressed. So she looked at me as if I just arrived from Mars. Extra terrestial language. And only after the whole process we will just walked to celebrate. It was my mom and my own. So I was in a cool company. And then I just bumped into one of my classmates. So we started in MIT, Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. And I'm actually played hockey together. So ice hockey, so it used to be a keeper I was attacking, and I hardly recognize him. And then he started actually sent his relatives for so he thanked me for all the knowledge he got in mlcourse.AI and it actually it actually helped him to find his job in megaphone so it's a huge Russian telecom operator. And yeah, so he said he started as a newbie, and in three months he acquired all the necessary skills. So just a bit of working on SQL and, and so on, and now he managed to pass a pretty demanding interview process. So he thanked me. And then I actually noticed that my mom was impressed. And so it was just showed some signs of appreciation. And so she she saw that. Well, people really yeah, I appreciate what what we are doing. So I think if you can impress your mom, then you've definitely done the right thing.

Sanyam Bhutani  37:27  
That's that's really a high bar for everyone to be.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  37:31  
Yeah, definitely.

Sanyam Bhutani  37:33  
So also curious for people who've completed the course or once they complete this last iteration of the course how can they best support the course what would be the best method for that?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  37:44  
Yeah, absolutely. Speaking about our aluminous I would say the best thing to do is to become an active audience member. Just like Artgor or others, So we can contribute to the community you can. First of all, we can share your cool stories. So if you if the course helps you to find a data science job than just share your your cool story. Then just being active in audiences is cool by itself. So you can join some open projects, you can contribute to some cool libraries like elderman tations, or catalyst or some projects, machine learning for social good. So we also support some socially beneficial projects. So if you just joined discourses, events, it's also fine. Well, first of all, you can of course, share the information about the course. Why not? As some financial contributions, more than welcome, of course, but it's not. As I said, it's not the main source of my income, for sure. And I guess spreading the word about mlcourse.AI Yeah, everything in ODS, I would say that's it. 

Sanyam Bhutani  39:06  
Okay, so also call to action for our viewers and listeners we'll have maybe a Twitter thread and a LinkedIn post link, please do share it if you're a fan of ML course. So could you tell us like, this will be the last iteration of ML course? What plans do you have after this done? Will there be another follow up course?Maybe Dale? course, and given the speed of machine learning, do you think like, with time ML course might lose its importance? Or when the topics be still relevant?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  39:41  
Yeah, here we we touched a bit yeah. inconvenient topic for me. Yeah, actually, this is going to be the last session of mlcourse.AI. Uh yes so we've been running it from 2017. So almost for three, three years. Well, yeah, of course. It takes a lot of time. Um, I wouldn't have done it if I if I didn't have motivation. So that's for sure. I would, I would say it's a pre assumption of motivation. Yeah, like you sometimes I, I've seen some old grannies selling some some rubbish, somewhere in the evening in Moscow suburbs, and I thought, why the hell are they standing here and selling this shit? Yeah, oh, nobody needs this. Why are they selling this? But then there's this very simple idea of presumption of motivation. Yeah, if somebody is doing something, then there is motivation to do that. Otherwise, you just you just stop them. So of course, there's some motivation for me to keep up this fire with mlcourse.AI is some personal reputation. In the beginning, actually, the main motivation for me was to understand the material better. So I was really Excited with machine learning and with delving deep into theoretical and or at least we can practical all these nitty gritty details. But but still yeah, as I said it's sometimes it's a part time job. And yeah, yeah, of course it cannot last forever even such cool things as mlcourse.AI.

Sanyam Bhutani  41:21  
Yeah. 

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  41:22  
So I'll make an announcement later. Oh, no, it's not a deep learning course. No, unfortunately. Thankfully, we've got some really cool deep learning courses out there. Computer Science 231 and by Stanford, and fast.AI. Yeah, actually, to those people who successfully finished mlcourse.AI will offer to join a session on CS231N, this cool Stanford course. It won't be the same as mlcourse.AI so almost noinstructions from us it will be just self paced;

Sanyam Bhutani  42:04  
A Study Group format?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  42:07  
So yeah, we have a separate slack channel for that. And we invite people to join this really hard and demanding but very, very exciting course. And you can also ask questions on slack if you're if you want to understand the theoretical part to all the what's under the hood of neural nets, it's a reasonable next step of the mlcourse.AI. We also have a different course first iteration was in Russian and well I don't know if it's going to be translated into English not but for for Russian speakers, maybe there will be other next sessions of GL course but again within open the trans community. So personally, I am not going on with developing another course to much prefer to put into an mlcourse.AI. And yeah, this course will turn into a self paced format. So it still will be useful still reading articles watching videos and doing assignments is still available but of course the actual live session is much better way way more motivating to compete with some 2000 other folks.

Sanyam Bhutani  43:28  
Yeah.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  43:30  
Yeah And as for the knowledge shared whether whether it can go duplicate it whether it's going to be alive forever, oh, well, I think some some parts can still be alive even in in one century, such things. Recent logistic regression I think. Linear regression is alive for from 17th and 18th century from Ghost and it's still a reasonable choice in a lot of tasks. Well, of course, a lot of code depends on all this Python framework Python plus NumPy. And Pandas is killer. Yeah, of course, it's not going to last forever. But there are pretty good reasons why it shall last some 20 years more. Yeah, maybe, of course, maybe in 20 years, it will be taken over by another version of cool, efficient programming language. Yeah, maybe hardware will change a lot. But I would say for some, I don't know, it's hard to predict. But for some 20 years, I would say all the material will be will will still be up to date, I guess.

Sanyam Bhutani  44:41  
Also, because it's it's not library dependent or it's not relying on anything specific to today's date.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  44:50  
Oh, yeah. So there are a lot of things share to independently or for implementation. Of course, all the assignments, they deal with Python code. heavily rely on its color library. But a lot of theories. Yeah, it's eternal. All the math behind logistic regression or Britain boosting, it can live forever. 

Sanyam Bhutani  45:14  
Yep. So this, this was really an amazing conversation before we continued. And there are still nine days to join the course for people listening. There will be a link in the description, please do join the course if you're interested. What would be your best advice to the people that will sign up for the course for the last run, live run of the course. And for those who managed to complete the course. And maybe seeking your data science position, what would be your advice to them?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  45:44  
Um, yes. So starting with, firstly with the folks who are going to join the ongoing session. So first, don't be intimidated with with math. Yeah. So of course it starts with the EDA and then with basic things like what is machine learning, what's the difference between classification and regression? And then suddenly the fourth topic with linear models and we a lot of math, don't be intimidated. So you can always find helping in slack community, we also share some material on math. And in the worst case, indeed, you can just skip some parts and just go to the practical, practical part. And of course, don't don't be shy. Don't. Yeah, don't be ashamed of posting silly questions. So please follow the rules. I'll announce them in the slack community. But if you follow the rules, man, you can ask any silly question. I just, yeah, I just wanted to find my first questions in this Coursera forum when I when I started passing, Android and juice course back in 2013, I guess my first question was, well really use linear regression and actually learning something. So why is it learning? It's some yeah, you perform some straightforward computations and why is it actually learning? And then yeah, then indeed, some other folks explain me that yeah, we are collecting data. So we, by learning, we mean adapting these ways. It's not rocket science, but still, that's what we mean by learning. So I would say it's pretty silly question. But when you're a beginner, just don't be afraid of asking. And so if you're, if one of the topics or one of the assignments is, is unbeatable for you, well just grab some, some some courage to skip this assignment and just join the next assignment. And the main thing is just to have this course done, yeah. So just to pass through the it's a very simple idea but but still, still some three quarters of you, of course, participants will will just drop however you, you can cover some 10% of each topic, but finish the course and still it will be really, really helpful really valuable. You'll get some some essential knowledge. Well, maybe not 10% but if you if you complete one third I think I still think it's some yeah, essential knowledge. As for those who managed to go through the course, oh, yeah, of course I would say if you're not still not into data science, if you work let's say as a Java programmer and you want to to enter a data science field. Yeah, if you are if we are talking about the first data science position after, of course, like me, of course, ai or alternatives. I would say you you need first to know Python and SQL. Yeah, I would say these are essential things to check in the in the interview. Then in some companies, they would also check math. So if it's a Google style interview or us interviews that we had back in Russia, like my previous company, mailed a true group, a huge IT giant, called Yandex. So we all followed, let's say, a Google style interview. So we expected some math knowledge from from students.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:27  
Okay.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  53:59  
Same goes for for Kaggle. It's completely separate story. I think you can, you can gain some knowledge on Kaggle, but you shall resist this gamification part. So it's really, really easy to fall into this trap. But of course, yeah, if you're if you just covered some basic amount course then in the beginning Kendall will be helpful for sure. And then after all of that, I would say, just go for interviews. So start applying for data science positions. You I definitely won't recommend taking one year, break from all your activities and investing this time into ml courses or keggle or pet projects. No, go for interviews, collect some feedback, then you you'll get to less your universe while talking to people on answering their questions, you'll develop some of your soft skills. We can actually call it reinforcement learning yes. So you're applying one position, even if you're rejected you, you you've gained some, at least some experience. Sometimes you just make three or four attempts. And then for some reason you just succeed with one of your applications. 

Sanyam Bhutani  55:20  
Yeah.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  55:20  
I was also rejected a couple of times by Yandex and Google. I was okay with it. It was a cool experience for me, I made some conclusions. And then at the same time while attending interviews, you can manifest what you've done with this pet projects and and Kaggle and then just be be social. Get some references and when you're ready just asked for for a reference. Yeah. So you can ask your friend work in some company to to write a recommendation letter. And this actually this works particularly well. Well yeah if you if you need if you work as a data scientist and you need to fill in some spots to quickly hire a person or just slowly hire person just according to some some hiring plan. Yeah of course the first you you will ask for some references recommendation letters. 

Sanyam Bhutani  56:22  
Yeah. 

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  56:22  
So so it works really well. So I, if you want to develop some timeline, I would say this Python, SQL and math these these goes in the beginning. Yeah, and then and then programming then goes ML part. Then some personal projects and Kaggle and the last can go yet at the same time so you can attend conferences, find to find new people get to know some new people and at the same time, you can practice with interviews and then at some point you you'll succeed.

Sanyam Bhutani  57:03  
Got it, also curious, like where do you hold your Kaggle mark? So, like discarding the gamification but but how what would you consider respectable Kaggle in terms of maybe percentage or medals? Could you speak to that?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  57:20  
Yeah I would say depends of course on the position so if you apply for a purely ML modeler like if your condition is going to be fitted predict it of course it's require some at least some square in skills, but for some positions being a capital master I would say might be essential for some other positions yeah, I would say silver models are still okay. I'm okay with competitions Master yet. So I actually I am optimize the amount of knowledge that I get to know conditions and yeah well some competitions are really really very very cool in terms of knowledge later there I particularly enjoy competitions which are closer to research like gender pronoun resolution yeah I still don't haven't got a golden medal in the competitions but but still I learned a lot in particularly in NLP competitions. So when I moved to the Netherlands here I just delved into the domain of NLP so I just started with NLP and at that time Kaggle was especially helpful for me I got a lot of tricks a lot of knowledge shared by kernels and discussions. Yeah, so I would say if you if you can present your your solution if you can show that you you've gained some knowledge or so sometimes even a solid silver model can be can be better than golden model. If you if you participated if you if you are part of a big team and you cannot describe the solution. Then your golden medal is useless.

Sanyam Bhutani  59:04  
Got it. So before we end the call first on the behalf of the community, I'd like to thank you and the complete mlcourse team for all their efforts and all the great things happening at ODS.ai. Before we end the call, we know how to get to ML course maybe could you tell us what would be the best platforms to follow you and your work?

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  59:27  
Where else I still am mostly seen in ODS community. So my name is Yorko, Then now yeah, sometimes I do post something on Twitter. I guess that's it. Yeah, I've got my personal site I sometimes I write something on medium. But still yeah, the main source is ODS or slack community, slack community. 

Sanyam Bhutani  59:53  
Got it, we'll have your Twitter and your website linked in the description for those who want to follow you. Thanks so much again for aking the time to do this interview and thank you for creating mlcourse.AI.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  1:00:05  
Yeah, thanks. It's it's my pleasure. Yeah. Lastly, I want maybe to give some last piece of advice to and of course the participants. Yeah, we've got this motto to learn ML the hard way. But still I want to make a precaution just don't fall into the trap of learning or working full time. And full time is okay but I mean, don't work 14 or 15 hours per day. Don't fall into this trap. So it well of course, it's mostly about startup or so if you just go to the US and invest the whole piece of your life some three years into some startup. Now you can fall into the trap of workaholics. I would I would just say the be careful with your time. Go on with with sports and yeah, you shall not sacrifice you, you shall not ignore your your family, parents, friends, yeah your partner. It's, it's still very very important so never, never sacrifice two things, your family and;

Sanyam Bhutani  1:01:22  
That's that's great advice. Thanks for the amazing end note.

Dr. Yury Kashnitsky  1:01:26  
Yep, thanks nice talking to  you.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:01:29  
Likewise.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:01:39  
thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message. You can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science".

