Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiast where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:47  
Welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I'm really excited to be interviewing one of the inspirations in the intersection of Medical Sciences and AI Dr. Judy Gichoya. Dr. Judy is currently an assistant professor at the Emory University School of Medicine. She's also project maintainer and contributor to labour health and open MRS open source projects. And she has a background in medicine and surgery with a master's degree. Dr. Judy is kind enough to share many great advises for people on both sides of the table people from a interest in working in medicine and people with a background in medicine interested in applying machine learning or such techniques to their work. We talked a lot about the intersection of Medical Sciences, a an open source, Judy's journey into these intersections about her projects, and her current research. If you enjoyed these interviews, please feel free to subscribe to my newsletter. You can find the link in the description. I released two interviews each week on Thursdays and Sundays. For now, here's the interview with Dr. Judy. Please enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:15  
Hi, everyone, I am on the call with Dr. Judy Gichoya. Thank you so much for joining me today.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  2:21  
Thank you for the invitation.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:23  
So you're currently working as an assistant professor at the Emory University School of Medicine, and you have a background in a very interesting intersection that we'll just talk about the intersection of medicine, open source and artificial intelligence. But before that, could you tell the listeners how you got interested in machine learning and how did you get started in that?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  2:44  
So I would say that I've been sort of a little bit lucky, just to the right place, right time. And my home is actually in Kenya migrant because I mean, I'm always in the US, but and I, you know, went to medical school in Canada, and sort of was always at the, you know, sometimes the right place and according for technology just because I was very curious how we could use it for patient care. And then moving on from there, I, I came in to the US because I wanted to do a more clinical specialization. So, really, my, my, my draw to AI was also just a lucky accident because, you know, around 2006 I think, I don't know if you've seen the video where Jeff Hinton says that we should, you know, we should not train radiologists, you know, their country is and that really sparked this uproar in the, in the radiology societies because people are threatened they were scared because this was something new. What's this? So I went in and that's how I got involved, you know, and you know, all it was different. You know, I would say that I mean, right now it's the internet, it's a little easier to, to get involved because you can watch YouTube you can sort of get a grasp of a little bit of a grasp of AI I don't want to say;

Sanyam Bhutani  4:14  
For context when you get started. I think this was around 2016 seven you mentioned to I don't think they were even there was even though Andrew and his famous course back back in the day.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  4:25  
So my actually, my first starting to be honest, was was more reason to say through over the last maybe five years with when, when we've had this big, sort of, so it's not 2006 it's 2016. So yeah, so it's just been like three years and so he have to check that I'm totally on. Yeah, but we like his video, but we have I would say that most of my time has been essentially building learning because of my friends, the people around me who are computer scientists and also have software for learning because I experiment a lot. And I'm always trying to repeat it models and month and that way. So my way of getting started, actually, I paid for the machine learning costs by density, the nanodegree.[Okay]  I honestly do not finish, because I did not complete because it was really like a more fast because I remember asking the teaching assistant like why, why am I setting this landing race? Is that because, you know, and I was like, okay, this is not how I learned and so I got very disinterested pretty fast. And so ultimately ended up getting involved with Jeremy Howard, the post by Jeremy and Rachel Thomas, and we, you know, I found that this was something that made more sense for me. Because I could, you know, try something and then be like, oh, that's their;

Sanyam Bhutani  6:04  
The top down approach, as they call it.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  6:05  
Yes. Yeah. So I think that those are the better ones. But I've watched a lot of courses I've watched through and as I've watched, I'm watching some I still keep watching them as I go on.

Sanyam Bhutani  6:18  
Okay, also curious, how did you get started in medicine and radiology? So what was the reason for you taking this up as a career path?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  6:25  
So I mean, when when you grow up in Canada is not much of a choice, because when you to school, then you become a doctor or an engineer. So that was, you know, I'm not going to be here and say that I had a big calling, I did not but when I got into medical school, I really enjoyed it. And my school was based around something called problem based learning, which is very interesting because it's and maybe that's why I like the top down approach, because it's like a very problem based and so I really enjoyed watching them. Enjoy, you know, being a physician, but to then we're taking care of a lot of hit every patient, which is how I got involved in open source. And because then there was a homegrown open source solution that was coming up and being developed to help as sort of take care of this huge burden of HIV patients and so got involved in building medical record system, and I got involved in the open source community. And so I would say honestly, even if those fields look differently, they have served me very well. Although that's not intentional that I got into do them. One, cause, you know, my open source ways, you know, now help me thrive in like right now when there's so much openness around AI, but also understanding how to build communities and walk across multiple people with multiple skills, I think, is a big powerful thing for how the future of AI will walk in. So, yeah, so then, when I wanted to do a specialty then radiology was a natural fit because there's a lot of Like technology around you, you like big screens, you're in a dark room and, you know, so and then my specific specialty is an interventional radiologist, which is why you do minimally invasive surgery. That means that you're always innovating and thinking of the next step. So this, this idea of new technologies and disruption, much as people think that it will replace radiologist is not new, when it comes to when it comes to thinking how we have always worked with what;

Sanyam Bhutani  8:33  
We'll just talk about the intersection like how does a replace a human but also curious like, well, could you tell us more about your research who you was working as in this intersection of Radiology and deep learning and healthcare so?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  8:48  
So actually, my past I sort of my passion is democratization. And, you know, I think just having seen how people panicked when, you know, when the big people sort of big data scientists were talking about how, you know, we're going to be replaced. I think, for me, the first thing I did was actually important sampling educational activities sort of outreach. And actually, I just stopped doing that in June, and let someone else that running it, I was running a monthly journal club where we discuss, discuss, like topics, a new paper that's come up or something that's of interest, which, you know, I think really helped. Because if I look at when we started that, and, you know, we stopped talking about the lab be replaced to being like, oh, I tried this, or how can I do this, which was phenomenon. But so so that was, that was my initial stuff. So my passion actually, I see technology as a substrate for doing good. And and to be honest, I'm not so tied to medicine, it's easier to do it because I'm a physician. But when I think about technology, and I think by growing back in Africa, I think about you know, poorly equipped schools, my village school still doesn't have a chemistry lab. And yet we have such advancements in technology and bringing sort of education tools that are still not, do not make it to the loss of like what I call the last month. So my involvement in AI and reality is the last month for me as the clinician and the patient, you know, so right now we have a lot of digital tools in healthcare. It's really difficult because most of us, I think you've seen this reports that people all the doctors hit their electronic medical records. You know, and so this new intersection of now we have new technology coming in, and it's coming in at a quick rate. So one of the things that I'm looking at is how do you work with technologies, you know, how do they help you as a radiologist do a better job? How do they open up your blind spots? So all of these, I would say is an intersection of sort of like psychological studies and cognitive sciences, which is really the essence of the feature walk, you know how to move when I'm tired? How does it do when I'm starting out very early, like in my training was very specialized, because I think that the AI and for those two sort of doctors is very different. And so and this is a place where I can truly add value. So I'm very involved in sort of this future of work type of research, which is what we recently got funded by the NSF. Another area that I'm interested in is and starting to work with is the area of bias. I think, we've had amazing researchers who have looked at, you know, an AI system, you know, will not identify you when you're black. You're you're dark skinned or brown skin. And so, but but, you know, my sort of my sort of my experience is that we have a lot of bias actually in healthcare in the clinical pathway, ignoring and that's that's been my personal experience, and I think there's a real opportunity to start analyzing large types of data, which would be difficult for me if you say, you know, like, hey, where we shouldn't bias in our healthcare system? It's hard for me to answer that question. But by looking at patterns and features, when we sort of start to explore the data, when you have this new AI tools, I think there's a lot of interest and I'm hoping to spend a lot of time looking at clinical pathways and how they relate to patient outcomes and, and sort of transfer you know, transparency and fairness in terms of provision of healthcare. My other sort of passion is around policy. I think we will we will have new rules that come up. So to be able to do research that changes policy is fantastic. I think it's a grand idea may be too grandiose. But we, this is something that I'm very interested in because, you know, because as as physicians, you're always an advocate for European And so if you have those sort of like those intersection skills, then you have to think about sort of policy. And I can give you an example of other fields that are starting to do this. So for example, if autonomous company vehicle company came and said, you know, you're going to save money, and you should give us subsidies because autonomous cars cost less accidents, right? We've had researchers who've gone ahead and looked at do autonomous cars, cause, you know, less accidents and look like that as a study questions and who are they stand for? And, you know, they show that, you know, then you look at the road traffic accidents today. And you see that they're mainly by all the cars obviously, the other human factors that cause accidents, but these are mainly older cars. But when you think about new, newer cars, they already have some level of automation. Maybe there was one, but they're a little safer. And so if you look at the costs, The people who have fought on a mass cars already drive safer cars. So that theory;

Sanyam Bhutani  14:05  
That's an amazing point.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  14:06  
You know, in itself when you sell and you make cities before for subsidies is can be misleading. I'm not saying that they shouldn't get subsidies. So I do think we'll have these type of cases in healthcare as we start to use AI tools. And;

Sanyam Bhutani  14:24  
I think it's amazing that you're so aware of the technology, we're just talking about level zero level and how I look at it is like, back in the day someone even called this automation because we have like automatic gears and also to someone that's also in level of automation, like people from 50s, who didn't imagine that at all.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  14:42  
Yes, yes. Yes. 

Sanyam Bhutani  14:44  
And you were talking about biases in the data sets and and the model. So I assume, like the democratization that you're working on with the open source efforts from you and all all other efforts. So I think that will help get rid of that. What are your thoughts on the current prevailing biases because some thing that I'm personally surprised by and Rachel Thomas talks a lot about this would have it talks linked in the description, but these systems are already in production. So people are actually using a lot of these things that have a lot of biases in them. So, your thoughts?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  15:19  
Yeah. So, you know, at least the mindset from just, you know, very early, this is my month, my month one, really, and, and I've been, you know, in medical institutions, I cannot say, and then maybe just for stroke triad is what we may be using in production, but I think this is this will be the status quo for a long time, we're gonna see more. And, you know, for us, it's not, you know, like some of these other like places like policing, where we know they have a large scale, implementations those, those are really thank God at least where I work, wouldn't say we have that out try. But, you know, you know, I think these these are these are all for democratization and I think we made a lot of data available. I think I like the Stanford radiology group led by cutland clouds???? and Matthew Lundgren walk there and they have a fantastic job where they release a lot of data. You know, we know we have the mimic data set which now will have Radiology images, I think you could so that you can show them has sort of evolved it's still a high barrier for entry in my opinion, I mean, even like with a fantastic course by Jeremy we still have a very, very high barrier for people to get involved. But everyone else talks about data and then they have a realization to be honest these is like GPU true you have to call up and cargo been but it's still not enough. I don't know about you experience but you know, like right now with the ongoing as I am pneumothorax competition, without GPS at home, you wouldn't be able to participate in that competition. And obviously there's in their roles to sort of incentivize people to, to make models that walk on low, you know, number of hardware. But I think that the democratization portion and the openness we still, there's still a lot of work to be done. Now, that being said, that's, that's one barrier. And that's more of like people who are more technical info, but then this data reality of how do these systems get into into production. And so if I see how we've sold the electronic medical records or other systems in the past, we usually I say, this is what happens the doctors are not involved. The salesperson goes plays golf in You know, with a boss and says, you know, gee, this is going to save you money. And then the next day, we have a system, but I have to use this, this I'm telling you, this is what happens every time. And so I worry that the AI vendors will realize that this is how you sell software. And so we just because I'm in radiology, and I hold myself to a different standard of accountability when I do up as you know, I make a model and the one I've tested, it doesn't mean that a different department is going to hold themselves to the same standard. So not even just outside threat. When you buy software, I think we're going to start to see in house threats that by us and can cause harm, just because in a big healthcare system, it's not standardized of how we should do innovation and how we should tackle AI and machine learning. And so I've had people tell me that, you know, they were consulted on a project where people are saying gee, this is just a proof of concept. We don't test data. You know, we don't need a validation data said, you know;

Sanyam Bhutani  19:09  
But at the very scary examples that I know of is the theranos company in Silicon Valley. There's this movie about it. And it's pretty scary. And this has happened. So people like, have gone through that phase already.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  19:21  
Yes. Yeah. You know, I just saw that. The thing about moving to Atlanta is that I have a long commute now, like more than I'm used to, and I just completed finished listening to Toronto's podcast, and I was like, you know, I had the same reaction that this is off the, you know, off the off script. I had the same reaction thinking, how did all these smart people in the board not see that? This didn't make sense and it's possible you're right. It's really possible because people are hungry for change. healthcare needs change, but;

Sanyam Bhutani  19:59  
Context for the audience. The book is called bad blood. And I, if I remember correctly, millions of dollars were sort of completely wasted in this effort.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  20:09  
Yes, yes.

Sanyam Bhutani  20:12  
Yep. So I know you've been critical of the prevailing thought that an AI is replacing a human expert. People talk a lot about it. And like I get it, there's some amount of marketing behind it. But as a domain expert, what are your thoughts on a machine learning algorithm working along with radiologic, for example, and do you think it's a better idea to replace a human with time or do you think like this would work in sync with each other?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  20:40  
You know, I mean, my selfish way would be to not be replaced. But, you know, I, I think the people that say replacement do not understand how we will walk how we walk. Now, granted, I do believe that we will walk with AI This is going to, at least when I'm practicing, this will happen. But technology is has just evolved at a very different rate. And you know, when you're in an academic institution, you're a little bit shielded, to be honest. Because you're not like in Google or you're not at Facebook or Apple where they're building this technology so far. 

Sanyam Bhutani  21:19  
Yeah. 

Dr. Judy Gichoya  21:20  
But he aids like, okay, build this, you know, classification detect and people are happy. And it takes a year by the time I get published, it's two years. It's not online in in Greenwald, you know, but now. Now, maybe we won't require many radiologists, I don't know knows the future, to be honest. You can just prepare for it. But maybe there may be task shifting right. So maybe people who are sort of like us who usually like physician assistants will be able to read studies on their own and they wanted require intelligence. So this is up for debate. So maybe you can do a podcast interview for it, but, you know, I think I have had, you know, Dr. Mark Lungren from Stanford say, he tells his students and postdocs, and I mean, they attract a good number that because of under me is they should aim to replace the radiologist. So that should be that, you know, and so it's not happened yet. But, you know, and, you know, I think that the challenge of when someone says be replaced, is that, you know, like they don't, especially when you don't understand the nature walk, because you're always like, oh, it just took out this imaging, I think, that shows a little bit of naivety and it's a shame that come from, you know, very, very prominent names. I think the best. The places where we win is collaboration, and that's because, you know, like, I started this podcast by telling you that technology is a substrate, you know, It accelerates something. But right now, you know, we have our blind spots, we hate the technology we use for taking care of patients. So assuming that you're gonna dump on your technology and will like it is, you know, misplaced. And then the real opportunities to do well and that, you know, I'll try and give you an example. So, when you start, let's say you you, you get a CT scan of the abdomen and arms. We do this in multiple faces. So we call that a triple fist CT. And what happens is the multiple faces when I started off as a first year radiology resident, what I was trying to figure out is what are these faces, you know, like, because it's like, once this visual information that I have to assess and consume. Now when a patient is looking at that study, they're like, these are ugly pictures. Remember the research on this? know why they black and white, you know, and then when Let's say attending is looking for a senior resident is looking at this sort of this study, then at that point, what they're saying is, oh, maybe I just want to measure my volumes accurately. And that me as a interventionalist. When I look at this study, I just want to figure out, okay, what's the blood supply to these tumors? Am I going to get this chemotherapy really quickly to this tumor? And how am I going to shorten the procedure time and make sure that, you know, the patient is not complaining of their bark because they've been laying on the table for so long and we have complete treatment. So see, I looked at one set of images, right, and people city abdomen, but I showed you how the context varies from a very early trainee to a patient. They're hiring doctor, to a senior radiologist and to a subspecialist radiology is because we look at this one set of images, but they all that context for us is different. And I mean, I still don't know any it that can do that. So we will have another prediction to another lot. And people will get tired of them, they will use them. But to sort of figure out what's helpful, I think that's, I personally think that that's a real opportunity when you build a to figure out what's the value. And I think we do need a better job of doing that. Nonetheless, I do think that the grand challenge of AI would be to be able to see, I do think that this would be the killer app, if there was something like it would be be able to come into my conversation as an agent, and to me talking to a patient and record my notes and record them in context that we can review how, you know, there's so many signals that are generated, maybe the patient stopped, they were sad, they were crying, all these sort of context that we completely miss when I'm just reading through another note would be, I think, and they don't have to go back and do crazy documentation. That's me. You know, not helpful for the next doctor but it's helpful for billing is the same sort of analogy for the medical students and residents listening to this podcast I don't think we will be replaced but yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:16  
I think Sebastian Thrun and even Jeremy So Jeremy when he was like this is my interpretation of his thoughts but when he was at analytic they did say that they doing better at using a compared to doctors but tell his opinion is like using a with a human in the loop because both for both the people that because what that's when the creativity of a human shines out so these tools allow us to be more creators we were talking about this killer app but in essence will also take care of your role as a like advanced doctor that he was talking about I think.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  26:51  
Yes, yes yes, and the truth is we have blind spot. We make mistakes in healthcare, and so even reduce those mistakes will be amazing, you know? [Yeah] Yeah. So there are opportunities, but I don't, you know, everyone is focused on replacing, you know, and also it's not just the technology point of view, right? [Yeah] It's people, right. So there are other things in the hospital that people do, like who will use with AI? 

Sanyam Bhutani  27:17  
Hmm. Yeah. 

Dr. Judy Gichoya  27:21  
Or who will the surgeon call when they need someone else to to help them figure out, you know, atleast that they're going to the;

Sanyam Bhutani  27:31  
I think with time some of these might become obvious, for example now, but I understand that we use some machines, for example, in when we doing searches for drilling and etc. Like earlier, it wasn't a case. But now it's obvious that this is a better option. So I believe with time this may improve, but that's still open for debate.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  27:50  
Yes.

Sanyam Bhutani  27:52  
But for context, could you tell us like, what's the current situation like so what tools are showing promise right now and what I think could be like these future trends?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  28:04  
I think, if I was to say, if you're an investor, I think education is probably one of them. Because I mean, you have this massive workforce, that's AI illiterate, right. You know, and most of the people things out there is like, hard math, you know, no one is going to go back to school to do this. And, and also, even if there's a wealth of resources out there, it's really confusing where to get started, you know, very overwhelming. So I would say education and sort of outrage, I would say we are still very early. And, you know, we don't have good ways of figuring out how to annotate data. Healthcare has a lot of data, it's not usable. It's very expensive to parent ologies to annotate data. So there is an opportunity around the sort of like the basic building blogs before you can be like, oh, this is changing lives. And then Remember, I told you I want to do research around policy, this is one of the questions you can start to answer. So, you know, sometimes you could say, well, if you didn't use this AI to maybe you improved your turnaround time, you know, because most of these AI tools and optimization, like maybe a triad school, I feel they're big, towards sort of like operations metrics, like, oh, I want my studies read in one hour, and I don't want to hire someone else, because I want this person to read them, you know, and I think, you know, so we don't really know on a large scale, once you're starting to use these, how many are they missing, you know, how, you know, like, what, what, like if we didn't have this AI to literally have done a different sort of intervention, or we'd not have done an intervention. So we have these sort of new areas that we haven't asked, but I would say what's what's working right now, data science if you have a data set that you want to release, and this is also like a shift, because some people are so they think that and there's the venture capitalists have put in a monetary value on data, you know, so everyone is holding that data. And obviously, there are legal implications, like if you if your data set is not well anonymized. So there's this a consequence, but I would say, you know, people who've released their assets, I think, are are seeing progressive innovation around those businesses because the community is hungry for medical science and is consuming them and they keep improving them. So if you look at the NIH, just extra data sets is probably one of the most use.

Sanyam Bhutani  30:46  
I was just going to talk about that. So I was lucky enough to have a Dr. Alexander the winner of the rsna pneumonia challenge. And he also mentioned the same data set that I think is by Ron Summers.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  30:59  
Yeah. Ron Summers. Yes.

Sanyam Bhutani  31:00  
So he mentioned that it's one of the innovating data sets to like lead this idea.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  31:06  
Yes. And so yeah, so we so if you look at education, anyone who's doing a MOOC or offering a course, I think people are hungry for that. So that's, I would say data sets. And open source has not been very well adopted. But I think there's a big opportunity for infrastructure. And, and this is tough, because, you know, if you look at some companies like Google, I think they said they rewrote their Google Translate. [Yep] So that walk with a I think Google Maps to, but that's not possible in healthcare, we use very archaic architecture. So how will you walk with this new technology? So I think that's still not a god, it's still a gap. If you think about a cloud strategy, most people haven't moved to the cloud and are not willing to move to the cloud. So even if you're sending some maybe an image to the cloud, then it's process and then send the results back. So that these workflows that we have to manage and new expectations even before we can be like, oh, we're starting to make impact. But I would say, people don't seem as excited to figure out the prediction tools, you know, but, and that's because I think we have a lot of opportunity to study outcomes. So for example, the, you know, we will predict that or we will predict acute kidney failure. And then so what, you know, like this, what now parts and those questions, I think, are tough to study and are important. And, specifically for ideology, I would say anything to do good volume measurements would be some because I do this every time I hit it might be a competitor taking that over from me. And then I will see a lot of tools coming in for triad, you know, so we have a big long list and it's saying, hey, you should read this one study right? Because maybe the patient is bleeding or something bad is happening.

Sanyam Bhutani  33:04  
So I think we were talking about this earlier also, about GPUs being used and all that stuff. But for me personally, like, I wouldn't use anything unless it's fast enough, for example, you have all these amazing assistants on the phone. And unless and until I think, even like we get to a stage where medical applications could be run on such devices. I remember that my mother had to get a CT scan, and we had to like, travel a lot, because even that machine is pretty big. And it wasn't available in our city. [Yes] So that's another talent, I assume, like with all of the medical equipment also being involved here.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  33:43  
Yes. And also, you know, you cannot modify some of the things that you can do that I've seen like, oh, man, that's a really good application. You cannot run it. You cannot change the machine because if you change the machine, have to get new FDA certification. vendor wants to do that, because it takes a long time. And it changes so fast. I mean, if, if, if I was, if you're sort of like an executive and you're listening to this, I would say, do not buy AI, you should rent it up most of you have to, because it's more of almost like this is a bad analogy, but almost having bought a Nissan LEAF and now there's a Tesla, this changing so fast, that that's the truth. If you even look at it, the PhDs who are in traditional academic programs if they're not outside and, you know, reading archive and trying out as many things they just kept behind. This is a subject

Sanyam Bhutani  34:42  
I think, I'm not too sure but not many of medical researchers published on Arxiv, from what I;

Dr. Judy Gichoya  34:49  
No because we like peer review for us. Right now, honestly, with the reality AI channel which is online quick, very quickly. On times, there's no motivation to be honest to be stuck on, you know, archiver. I understand that the and this has been actually an interesting my mental shift, even when you work with collaborators who are computer scientists, which is like the norm to publish an archive versus something else, and it's a balance.

Sanyam Bhutani  35:21  
Also, coming to your recent grant from NSF, a huge congratulations to you on the ground for, I'll quote the title of the abstract measuring learning gains in man hyphen machine assemblage, when augmenting radiologic work with a could you tell us more about the project sign up? What problems will the grant allow you to take on?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  35:43  
I think it's it's really what I talked about in this sort of recording, which is around the future of work. And so you're merging? We're merging two fields like on human factors and cognitive science. And I mean, it was Given a specific example, I could say if I have to read a study for a patient who had cancer, and, you know, they have studies in other, you know, other sites, right, and I'd not present those studies. And so that's, that would be like a radiologist explanation of cognitive fear. Even if they're the best radiologist, they cannot do a good job, right. So because to do a good job, you need to be able to tell me if the cancer is the same, better or worse, right. And so if you do not present the previous information and you don't present it in a consumable way, then the radiologist will be blind to that. Other factors for radiologists to know about the length of warships, the type of studies you're reading, these are difference in complexity, you know, these uncertainity when we report even if it's not documented that this isn't just because of the way we report our studies. So all these sort of other human factors does that affect our walk? What we're saying is, you know, okay, great, you've built an algorithm that detects pneumonia more than the radiologist, by the radiologist is not just treating chest x rays, they're reading CT scans, MRI scans, they're reading just extra, they're not just reading pneumonia. So when you put all this model zoo in the desert, how do I how does the retail or the swag today get five different alots because, you know, other models are corrupting each other and, you know, starting to give false results. And so those are sort of like the avenues will be looking at specifically how their ideology swag how, and then also trying to, to actually improve because previously I think we've had unidirectional you. You train your data at one point, and then say it's better than retail or just instead of saying, okay, if I'm using this as a tool that's being come to us, now I'm at a point where, you know, the modern lance, okay, you know, duty changed thiswas maybe they were not very good. So keep that image and then goes back hundred trains and then sees how when it when you have to reconsider for me I leave for a kidney on the next study how he performs.

Sanyam Bhutani  38:14  
So I understand these tools even as of 2019 are still very brittle in the sense that the pretty brittle to adversarial changes and even legs, what we were talking about.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  38:26  
Yeah, and also, one was interesting, actually, one of the papers talked about that, you know, the more just my model, if I can be at pathology or model, you know, even if they're not doing the same tasks. So, you know, I'm just sort of looking at the bigger picture, like how will we essentially the question we're trying to do is how do we move this I mean, the the amazing technology that comes up, honestly, when other than retail artists are saying, or makes our lives easier, how do we move into the bedside, that it actually improves patient care, you know, and that's why we'll be studying this. And I can explained alluded to that a little bit earlier when I say, I think the learning needs are also different at every level. And so you can imagine it's almost like having a personalized agent or a assistant based on the on the study you're reading and the question that you may have, and then you may have.

Sanyam Bhutani  39:21  
Got it. So I now want to shift the conversation to another area that you've been very active and recently open source contributions, again, in the medical domain. So one question would be like this was in the, I think you started when not many people were putting out open source projects in this domain because of again, the legalities involved. So what got you interested in open source back in the day, I'm sure you must have faced some amount of resistance when you were working on.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  39:51  
Mine was very different because because I got involved fellows in Kenya, there wasn't anything and I was very lucky to be in this situation where, you know, this amazing doctors were trying to build an EMR to help one of the programs where I went to medical school take care of HIV patients. And so, you know, from the word go, the intention was to share the code, because then there wasn't any monetary value in, you know, remaining close, right. You know, so by sharing, you could let other people customize, you could let other people adapted for their problem. So every time I told you a paper on this, how open innovation walks in the sand, and I think it's driven by a common problem, no. And so the common problem there was, how do we know how to take care of a certain group of patients, you know, maybe, then our struggle was we didn't know who, who had bought drugs, or drugs or walking, who was hungry, not able to take their drugs who died. And so, you know, I think when you build technology when you're trying to solve a problem, then There's a principles, I think it's just sort of who the person is I'm getting into trouble because of open source because that's how I've always viewed my projects. I do them in the open and I look for collaborators. And so that for me as a, like, it wasn't hard for me to rely on because that's how I learned from the word go that we can put these things in the open and create interesting business cases to allow companies to make money from them, but also to make society better. And so yeah, so so it was sort of like another happy accident. But yeah, I don't know how, you know, like, most of the stuff I do is I just;

Sanyam Bhutani  41:43  
It's passion driven.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  41:44  
Yeah, you know, it just out there and because you get amazing feedback, you get feedback. I mean, if you think about one of the most powerful courses today is you know, fast AI and why because it has a fantastic community and it's out there in the open last well advanced I can rewatch the videos many times you know this is for open source and I'm glad big companies are starting to figure this out now today you don't have to tell tryna model from scratch, right? Because the open source because the the business value and the distinguishing factor comes to how you take care of yourself, your customer and all those other things more than trying to hide one piece of software.

Sanyam Bhutani  42:24  
Got it. Also curious about so I'm from India I understand the difference between medical and engineering. So how did you get started in open source like what how did you get started with the learning personal because I'm sure like medical studies are in itself very, very challenging and you will also active in open source back in the day.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  42:43  
Yeah, you know, the truth is because I couldn't afford medical school. So I was working in computers to make some extra money and then I ended up.

Sanyam Bhutani  42:56  
That's how you found your passion also. 

Dr. Judy Gichoya  42:58  
Yeah. Yeah. That's what happened.

Sanyam Bhutani  43:03  
I'm also curious if you could to about the open source projects open MRS and labour help, could you tell us about those projects and your role in them?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  43:11  
So I started off with open MRS. And that's because Eldoret, Kenya was the first site where this was implemented. And you know, then there was a developer who would come from the first developer and we would hang out on Fridays and code and that's I actually ended up learning Java because my first programming language was Pascal. 

Sanyam Bhutani  43:36  
Okay.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  43:37  
I cannot find anything in that anymore. But;

Sanyam Bhutani  43:40  
I don't think anyone can.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  43:42  
Yeah, but but you know, but the interesting thing is actually when I just implemented when MRS the first time it took me like two weeks, we didn't have good internet. So that's actually when I when I started learning. And so that was a little challenging. My home did not have electricity. So I bought this computer that out, keep in my uncle's place and go and try and walk on the during the day. But I was very interested in sort of getting how computers work. And you know, I think it's a little bit easier when you when I enjoyed it a lot. I mean, like, obsessed even now, like, I can stay up all night working on something.

Sanyam Bhutani  44:25  
I was going through your GitHub profile, and I think you were trying to Pytorch implementation of chest x.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  44:31  
I'm working on that right now. Yeah. So it's, it's a it's actually updating it to the most recent Pytorch. And so, yeah, so I, so that's how I ended up sort of starting to contribute, and then I started learning. And then, for me, it's always been project based. I pick a project and I'm like, oh my god, I don't know why I picked this up and A. Cooper had to it and I put my head down and walk on it. But over the time, what I've realized is it's nice to build a network of people you can ask questions from. So it's this concept of You shouldn't have a blocker for more than, you know, by the next sundown, you know, the next sunset. And, you know, that means I'm not working on the same problem for a week. Because I have people I can ask like, hey, what do you think about this and also speaking with a female sometimes you want to have like a safety net for people you can like ask what would be appear stupid questions, and I'm fun. I'm so lucky. It's not just I have so many males who are always eager and I can ask them my stupid questions anytime and so that's built a lot of my confidence and now you know, I can I also improve on some things like, which was helpful with open source was I improved on code reading, so I can go through code and be like, okay, I know this is what's happening, then. You know, I wasn't afraid of such a long time to search for the solutions on Google. So sometimes I'll be like, oh, I don't know what this is and go back and try and figure it out. So I would have gotten very good problem solving skills in terms of programming. And that's been super helpful, because; 

Sanyam Bhutani  46:16  
I'm fresh out of my CS degree. So we have this internal joke that computer science, it's 10% and is a 90%. how to Google.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  46:25  
Yeah, yeah. You know, and people are afraid of them and are ashamed of them. But I spent a lot of I flog a lot of publications on Stack Overflow. You know, like, oh, that's been answered, and I movies, you know, and so, yeah, so I think build a network, practice, practice, practice, I think is have gotten better. You know, I just pick a project. I'm like, okay, so like to them. I have a problem right now because I'm trying to do bounding boxes and then use that for a segmentation task. So it's sort of like, like an assemble. And I have never done that before. So I have to figure it out.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:06  
Yeah, I think it's also about like people like you that sort of tend to give back. So again, you creating these communities, so where people are comfortable with asking me questions. So it's again, like if you if you all can come together and democratize similar to the first day family, all of these things.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  47:21  
Yes, yes. I do have my medical family that does that. And it's fantastic. And yeah. So you know, and I go through phases. I'm like, oh, no, good ba ba ba, then someone who asked me a question, and I'll be like, oh, this is how, and I'll be like, okay. Yeah, so it's, it's, it's very varied, but I would say that I that's how I troubleshoot my problems, but working on a project because I always remember like, um, you know, like, what problem am I trying to solve is super. I think it's super important and helpful.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:02  
Also if you could tell us more about open MRS library. What are these looking at?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  48:07  
So, my current involvement of open source and if any of your listeners here is looking for a project, I need some people to help out. 

Sanyam Bhutani  48:17  
We'll have the links to doing the project.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  48:19  
Yes, yes. So one of the specific projects I'm working on is so we have good open source tools for the database of Radiology images. So we have something called the cm for chair and often very fantastic projects, good communities, you know, I think is fantastic. And then we have sort of like the EMR type of things you know, the brain healthy MR open MRI EMR.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:46  
I'm sorry, what does EMR stand for?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  48:48  
Electronic Medical Record. [Got it] And but what's missing is like the, the manager for the for the Radiologist workflow, you know, and that we call in the US the combat radiology information system. So one of them. So that's what I've been working on trying to build a radiology information system. And that just means hey, now I know that the patient has gotten a study, I know that, you know, it needs to be read by someone, you know them some tools to help them read and do a good job. So that's sort of like, it's like a doctor system for management. So nothing to do with AI. But the interesting project when need help with is in the US, it's very expensive to pay for voice recognition. [Okay] You know, back home, we need a better voice recognition system. That's medical, and I would like to just do like a transfer learning to train a voice system to help us identify medical records, you know, like radiology report. So, you know, we've been hopeful that we'll get a student it opens also progress is always slow. You know, we always get Google some of code students, and we're hopeful that we will get an interest that person to help us sort of do that voice recognition piece for the software, which is a real real gap for doing in developing countries.

Sanyam Bhutani  50:23  
Where does audio come into the picture so I'm not clear on that;

Dr. Judy Gichoya  50:27  
The way we do studies here is you just pick up your microphone and you just dictate your findings. Audio to text, because it's [Got it] so your people can use text typing and all those things. But for us, it's if we could have a little bit of a voice to help us sort of help the doctors document faster

Sanyam Bhutani  50:50  
Because it the current system miss miss most of the technical terms is that the reason.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  50:55  
So you you have to so the current systems are not medically trained. So [Right] yeah, you cannot they're not usable. [Got it] I've been trying google google speech all the time, like, the voice, but it's still you cannot dictate our imports as good as the proprietary systems. Yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  51:16  
Okay. So could you tell someone what would be your best advice for someone who's from the medical domain and looking to get started with maybe both deep learning and also open source? What would be your best advice to them? Because these are two very separate fields.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  51:31  
Yeah. So, um, I would say if you're a medic, go to the American College of Radiology, you will find a lot of like minded people, and most importantly, go to the best society in the world, which is a seam Society of imaging informatics and medicine, refund plastic people, geeks, who are doctors need to or not man doctors. I mean, this is the one conference I can go to, and just bring a T shirt and I'm happy and it's this fantastic conversation. So and you know, so definitely go there, you'll find for me and you'll find a way to get started. Then if you're sort of planning on your own, in terms of there are many tools out there, I think Kaggle Google colab if you do not have to be use, and then just look at the competitions, there's so much wealth of information in the discussions, like, you know, cargo and the ongoing conversations, but if you're sort of a little bit technical savvy, I would highly, highly recommend the first day I cos I mean, that's always my answer to that comes up. Because it's a fantastic course and to be able to honestly on right now to be able to read just a technical paper and not just maybe make sense of the math but everything else makes sense and I can explain it back. It's only possible because of fast AI. I would say that.

Sanyam Bhutani  52:58  
I'm a huge fan and I'm very grateful to engage. And also I've been a huge fan of the course since it came out.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  53:05  
Yeah. And then the other side of open source come to liberate half. That's what I would say, you know, the first thing, you know, just come and introduce yourself, you know, introduce people will you'll find walk and do it's very communal and honestly, you're right. It's about pay for one. And I don't do these things to sort of get credit or get, you know, like anything else, but I end up like, people will write to me and I've made friends all over the world. And, you know, it's just really personally rewarding and sometimes.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:42  
I think it's again, because as we were talking, it's again, a passion project for you rather then;

Dr. Judy Gichoya  53:47  
Yes, yes, yes, yes, I still do that. I mean, even now, even when I'm so busy, I still find time to do Google some of course, because it's fantastic. And we have this new people who come. So actually one of my mentees is Priyanshu who, who actually lives in India. He was a Google Summer of code student with us maybe two years ago. And he just randomly came across this project I was walking on. And he's like, oh, you know, I'm in Python. And what's this thing? What's this AI? I send him away. I was like, go watch this video. And he did. Now we have an accepted paper that we worked on. And we are walking on a different project, but it's fantastic to see. This one person who had nothing zero knowledge about AI is now a super Lana, you know, and so it's just fantastic. You know, just to see these people flourish. I find a lot of personal satisfaction from it. So that's my answer, but even just a little bit, I'll come to liberal. ping me on anyway, I'm happy. I need more, help more help. A lot of work to do. And if you're a medic go to same as I am. It's just really the place where you have for maybe.

Sanyam Bhutani  55:11  
Got it. What would be your best advice in terms of I think fast AI, we want to wait for someone who's looking for both has an interest in medical domain and is looking for a MOOC or a book, maybe for both. Yeah, made up someone from deep learning, maybe looking to get to break into medicine.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  55:34  
To be honest, I would say collaborate. [Okay] This is not supposed to be a dismissive thing. I think even Jeremy says it's easier to teach a medic to understand technical portions than the other way around. So the way I do it is I team up with people who are interested and then as they teach me the technical stuff, I'm teaching them the medical staff so it becomes all end up learning from each other. There's this eeally, I mean, you just gonna go down the rabbit hole, but have you come up with like a simple medical terms but I feel like most people get a better sense if you collaborate if you look for a collaborative partner and work with them. So some like you when you go and just rotate or observe in the hospital, you know, you see so many things but if you for my productive and now when when we start a project, I say this is why this is important and explain to them like this is this is the one one medicine course but, you know, you're telling to me maybe we need to democratize the other way around. You know, it's true, maybe like the same things that I have to explain to someone I could try and make it available for the people who want to get started.

Sanyam Bhutani  56:42  
I think I'm not sure if this will be out as a MOOC. But Doc.ai I think Jeremy's involved in a MOOC or some course, there also.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  56:50  
Yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  56:54  
I also want to ask you, how do you keep up with the cutting edge, because there's this huge outflow and also what uh innovations are you most excited about the current innovations in the medical domain?

Dr. Judy Gichoya  57:05  
So, I, the way I keep watching in touch is using Krita. I have sort of, I think I've curated a good sense of the problem with that is you can also be very blind because you're always in your right. But I spend time and double click if someone post something nice, and I'll sort of go back and look at them. So I think that's how I kind of get a sense of what to read or a good topic. I'm increasingly interested right now with paper review reviews. I've really enjoyed I think Richard taqman does that a lot. I love I just love you know, listening to have go through a paper. I came across some from Microsoft, actually, I read that. So I've enjoyed that. I spend a lot like YouTube type of things. And then I'm like, also take advantage of Google Scholar lots. So if there's like a big paper, like in medicine that is, you know, maybe a landmark paper, or, you know, that paper that I thought was well written is them, I track how it flows and how it comes back to, you know, being like, okay, this. So this, this is what's important for this. And so I do that. And then there's also friends, just sharing like, oh, hey, did you see this? So I have a lot of people where we brainstorm ideas and just the and see there's a thing It wasn't an open source and be like, oh, it's my idea. Like, oh, yeah, what do you think about this? And so I always end up learning. One thing I'm doing this month just because I'm not so clinically busy, is I'm doing a lot of reviews. And I'm learning a lot from them because that means I have to go read and look at the literature and do all those things and I'm really want to become a very good review. And you know, there's some tools like open review so you can go read a paper and decide on you and then cope up, honestly, this is maybe some of the principles I learned early about self directed learning from a medical school pay off. Okay, I look at this or this is this is why this is important because I mean you cannot consume everything. 

Sanyam Bhutani  59:27  
Also want to give a shout out also want to give a shout out to a community that I'm active in data science network, you can join it from the SMTP.org. We do a lot of paper reading sessions virtual one so everyone can join online and also we have a study group for fast if anyone's interested. [Awesome] Before we conclude what would be your best advice to someone who feels intimidated by maybe deep learning and also all of these advanced, if I may, terms like radiology and how do you apply these technology to them.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:00:01  
I think just don't get overwhelmed. You know, honestly, even I still, I still struggle with things. So you're not alone. Don't get overwhelmed, keep working on it, and then also be organized to be honest. One other thing I would say, though, is that if you blog, or write summaries is a really good way of understanding something, you know. So I mean, I keep a notebook when I'm doing stuff. I'm now going back. You know, right now, I'm promoting the first day lessons because I didn't watch the swift ones. And, of course this year and creating templates and being like, okay, this is how I'm going to be reporting this. So don't worry about this. And then you can share it if you don't, or you just keep notes for yourself. But everyone, I mean, people who said they don't struggle with this deadline or you're just egotistical. Everyone has imposter syndrome. just recognize what you're able to do and just walk out it. I do believe that that's that that is possible to get better doing whatever you want to do.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:01:11  
That's amazing advice. I'd also have Rachel's advice on blogging link, because that's been personally very helpful. So Rachel Thomas' blog on how to get started on blogging was very helpful for me. 

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:01:22  
Yes, yes. It's, I mean, I wrote so many, and it takes a lot of time to write a good blog, you know, you don't have to write something big, but I did a lot of time. And so if you, I think, if you keep your mind and you're always like, okay, I'm going to do this, then it's good. It's halfway information for you when you forget and for other people.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:01:45  
Right. One thing that I'm sort of experimenting with is also like doing an online talk doing this like a group reading session where I can present because that also opens me up to as we were talking about my blind spots about what things I understand and I don't.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:01:59  
Yes, yes, absolutely. I haven't tried that reading thing, which probably I should but yeah. 

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:07  
Okay.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:02:08  
Yeah. 

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:09  
Thanks for the great advice, before we end the call would be what would be the best platforms to follow your work.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:02:16  
Um, I think that probably I'm most active on Twitter now. 

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:20  
Okay, so we'll have it linked in the description for people. Thanks so much Judy for doing this interview and thank you so much for all of your contributions to both the medical and the deep learning community.

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:02:32  
I appreciate it. I really enjoyed talking to you.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:35  
Likewise. 

Dr. Judy Gichoya  1:02:36  
Okay, awesome.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:47  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message you can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science."

