Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:47  
Hello, and welcome to another episode in the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode I interview Chip Huyen. Chip is a senior deep learning engineer at Nvidia with a background in computer science from Stanford in the interview will talk all about her journey into the field of machine learning and the current work at Nvidia. We also discuss machine learning interviews. And the book that chip is currently working on, which is all about machine learning interviews. Also her experience, interviewing candidates, and MOOCs all open online courses, including the amazing TensorFlow, one that Chip had taught at Stanford. Here's my interview, which is all about machine learning, interviews, and online courses. Please enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:51  
Hello Chip, thank you so much for joining me. I'm really excited to have you on this line be talking to you.

Chip Huyen  1:57  
Yeah, so thanks a lot. Thank you so much for having me.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:01  
it's a pleasure to have you currently working as a senior deep learning engineer at Nvidia. And you have been working as a researcher in the deep learning domain for the past few years.

Chip Huyen  2:13  
Well, so I did research in college and I work as a research assistant. So right now I am doing applied research.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:23  
Okay. Could you tell us how did you get started with deep learning and what made you pick this as a career path for yourself?

Chip Huyen  2:30  
So it's very funny because my background is in writing. So I went to thinking I could do something like creative writing a journal journalism and and then, and then I took a CS course magazines course. Because I stand for us like 90% of students take on CS course at one point or another. There was like so much when I first got in, my friends were like, it's not a matter whether you're going to take a course. I'm not as admitted when you take a CS CS course. So I thought that means my go take is in my freshman year, my first quarter. So good friends, and I realized it and it became like a sort of a teaching assistant for a CS course.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:15  
But this was in computers, right. So when you signed up for Stanford;

Chip Huyen  3:19  
No, Stanford is so it's liberal art. So you don't have to decide to major when you got [Oh okay] so you have two years to declare a major. [Oh, okay, got it] This is great. This is amazing. So yes, I took some CS courses and liked it. I liked them and they kept taking more classes. And before I knew it, I was a CS major.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:45  
Okay. And how did deep learning come into the picture? After by you experimenting with CS or somewhere along the line?

Chip Huyen  3:54  
I will say this like AI was an easier track for CS. Like, I was not good with system I was offered the system here is exciting, but I feel like AI has so many core applications. So I think yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  4:14  
Got it.

Chip Huyen  4:15  
It was like, really easy. It's like okay, well so I think was it was a main track for CS and a lot of overtaking it and of course this was super exciting.

Sanyam Bhutani  4:28  
Okay, so in my college is as well, in my experience, it has been comparatively easier versus the advanced algorithmic courses that's one of the reason I did opt for this.

Chip Huyen  4:41  
Also in high school, I sure did math. So I think that really helped with AI as well. So I was like, I didn't felt like I struggle too much.

Sanyam Bhutani  4:52  
Okay. And I think you started it so it's right after graduation. So working in Applied Research, what made you pick research over the industry;

Chip Huyen  5:03  
I am in industry right now, I work in Nvidia.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:06  
Um, but it's applied research a tool, just working on some project versus research.

Chip Huyen  5:14  
No our team is very production oriented. [Okay] Yeah. So, yeah, so so we've built. So actually we help to build toward kids to help companies bring resources to production.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:30  
Could you tell us more about what projects you're currently working on? And how does the life of a researcher, applied researcher at Nvidia look like?

Chip Huyen  5:40  
Um, so. So our teams, we have a lot of frameworks. Our team is brand new is like under one year. So we have some open seek to seek, which is a framework to help people do you know, I sequences one model, so it's based on TensorFlow the main future is a support misprision training and have a very easy way to to push this up to training. So, we also have a special combination system, my Jasper, which is built. So it consists of a very simple component, and it has really good performance. So it should make to make a good baseline model for people to compare against. So, so you bring guests on. So we we care a lot about production, which means you want to be models that are easy to deploy. So you know, when we do research, they will care about benchmarking, so they do modeling no matter how complex as long as it's like soda instead of the arteries on so we care more on like some sort of results. state of the art models are hard to deploy because they might be like it shouldn't be big.

Sanyam Bhutani  6:59  
Especially the recent ones.

Chip Huyen  7:01  
Yeah. So so we focus more on model so which we try to build models that are easy to deploy. So clear to make it easy for companies to fine tune the data set.

Sanyam Bhutani  7:18  
Uh Nvidia already has I think Apex which is a mixed preseason training library. So how is open seek to seek different because Apex does make it somewhat easy to use. 

Chip Huyen  7:28  
It works on PyTorch.

Sanyam Bhutani  7:31  
Okay.

Chip Huyen  7:32  
Yeah, and an upcoming framework that is in beta testing right now. That is like high level machine learning framework support.

Sanyam Bhutani  7:49  
So, talking about your previous I think these were internships at University of Edinburgh and Netflix. Could you talk a bit about the projects and also did you get Netflix free for life but when you interned there?

Chip Huyen  8:04  
Oh my god I cannot believe how many times a job I've been asked if I Netflix and chill. No, Netflix did not give a free account that now I had to use my friends account a lot.

Sanyam Bhutani  8:21  
Okay.

Chip Huyen  8:30  
I don't have one I'm using my friend's account right now. [Okay] So um so so my work at University of Edniburgh, was I was working on up as far as like abstract or abstract mean HMRC abstract meaning organization. Do you know it gets confused with AMRASR or like an automatic speech recognition, ASR, I get confused. So like, I'm sure from your limitations trying to find a candidate can a canonical reputation of languages so like, you know, graph like so it was a very short period. It was interesting. So it was one of those more old school linguistic and nobody is going to just do trying to fight universal reputation for language like like global universal grammar language was very interesting. Yeah, so I'm not sure I think some people are still working on it but AMR is a pretty niche. Yeah, it was cool though. So I think it's, I feel like a lot of time we just focusing on the needs of flashy things and deep learning. So be able to spend some time on something less flashy. A little bit old school is pretty nice. I learned a lot through the process. So I think my contribution was mostly finding a way she would represent to to input graph. So when you were executing graphs and how how do you input the graph into the system? So yeah, so it was like doing a graph.

Sanyam Bhutani  10:16  
Okay, I'm sorry, just wanted to be soon. So embedding graph you referring to the data structure right?

Chip Huyen  10:22  
Yeah. So like when you convert to have a sentence you convert into a graph personable, like I go to school, then though, it may be nice and may note and then I can read it you I would you like to object you'd like to school? 

Sanyam Bhutani  10:38  
Okay. Okay. And what about the project at Netflix? Where did you work on?

Chip Huyen  10:45  
On on machine translation.

Sanyam Bhutani  10:47  
Okay. And I'm not sure do they use this in production because maybe in the subtitle engine, I'm not sure;

Chip Huyen  10:59  
Why you I don't think I can talk much about that. 

Sanyam Bhutani  11:01  
Okay. Okay. Yeah.

Chip Huyen  11:04  
Machine Translation.

Sanyam Bhutani  11:08  
And talking about Nvidia, Nvidia has been doing a lot of exciting open source projects as well. So could you maybe mention a few outside of your team that you really excited about maybe the current developments?

Chip Huyen  11:23  
Oh, let's see. I think like, um, a lot of exciting projects clean with a gang modeling. So Nvidia has been making really good progress with that. We sold what we launched with last scale training. So like, our branding teams, has been releasing this recent huge language model with 8 billion in parameters. Yeah, so we do a lot with a self driving car.

Sanyam Bhutani  11:59  
Yes, I think language model is called Megatron.

Chip Huyen  12:03  
Yes, I think my be it. Yeah Megatron. 

Sanyam Bhutani  12:07  
Yeah. 

Chip Huyen  12:07  
Wow. That was super hard to train because I know the team working on it and we got it's really tricky to be able to train using such large amount of GPUs.

Sanyam Bhutani  12:22  
I also think like outside of maybe Nvidia or maybe maybe Google for that matter. It's not literally possible to even get that idea sort.

Chip Huyen  12:36  
I think a lot of companies can be able to jump for it, put a lot of money into AI.

Sanyam Bhutani  12:48  
Yeah. So, that brings me to another question is so deep learning resolves research usually involves a lot of compute power and which can be a barrier for lile maybe maybe students was small scale company. So do you think someone who has access to a limited number of compute maybe single GPU machines can also produce great results?

Chip Huyen  13:13  
Why not? So I think is this some debate about whether having too many too much resources, maybe a betting for research?

Sanyam Bhutani  13:22  
Um not really it's also about so I'm always curious because I just have a single GPU with me and what to how good can I get with just using a single machine?

Chip Huyen  13:36  
Um, so I think therecx v have been a lot of great work achieved by using just like very few GPUs. So I think I think there's an ongoing debate. So especially with the with a trend of a models getting bigger using more data, more computing resources for having wondering like, so like as a resource to do it. Had you joined the company to take advantage or the resources? So initially I had a I had I had a very as i said i posted on Twitter and it was turned out to be a very active discussion and people so I think some people had this view as like having too much resources can make you lazy can stifle creativity oh maybe it wasn't like this troll did at it and see something good go out of it. And a lot of progress is in research and made to make it trim efficiently using less data using less compute sooner like drop out or batch normal absorbs concepts you have you trailer fiction or or so like, even with recent you know a board is huge, and you're just today they have this model of DistilBERT, was just like 66 million parameters. So so i think is a good direction you can either go bigger like this like maybe go bigger or you can also develop new techniques that doesn't require massive data or compute with coming from me like if somebody went for Nvidia myself preaching but yeah, I think I have seen like really impressive work done by with virtual resources do you know as a team like hugging face or or explosion or spacy, Rasa, I say to embrace more team with little compute power, to do incredible, incredible work. That being said, I'm not saying that people like getting bigger models are not doing good work. I think the unsoldering incredible work. I'm gonna say this way.

Sanyam Bhutani  15:54  
Yeah. We also have an interview with the CTO of hugging face in the podcast. So, for the listeners do check it out in case you're interested.

Chip Huyen  16:03  
Yeah, Thomas

Sanyam Bhutani  16:06  
Julian Julian.

Chip Huyen  16:09  
Oh, that's so exciting. He's so great. I'm such a big fan. 

Sanyam Bhutani  16:14  
For sure. I'm sure how do they pull off this shipping these things so fast because the recent open AI GPT two release they just shipped it in, I think two three days.

Chip Huyen  16:28  
Yeah, I'm big fan.

Sanyam Bhutani  16:32  
So another thing that, personally, I think is possible as people with lesser resources can sometimes come up with pretty interesting or innovative ideas, for example, Jason Antic, the creator of the DeOldify. So he created this, this colorization technique on a single 1080 ti which is like a consumer GPU, which up earlier people would imagine would require a complete studio of people literally working on having videos colored.

Chip Huyen  17:05  
Yeah, I think there's a lot of cool for sure you can do with a single GPU.

Sanyam Bhutani  17:11  
I'd also like to talk about online learning. So you've taught an amazing course and on TensorFlow while you were at Stanford. 

Chip Huyen  17:23  
No!

Sanyam Bhutani  17:23  
I did enroll for it, but then I was also sidetracked into fast AI. So I, unfortunately didn't get to completing it. But talking about the goals, so you, I think, a full time student at Stanford in the time, I guess, and which itself is a huge commitment. So why was it important for you to also contribute to the cause and create on the material?

Chip Huyen  17:50  
I think it was important for me because I want a course in TensorFlow, so I really wanted to learn so to learn TensorFlow, so beginning I was I didn't know much TensorFlow, so I use it during the internship and my solid in my second year. And how that this is pretty cool. I wish I knew how to use it better. And I went to my school and I talked to some professors like, can you guys have digital courses and data flow? And we're like, we're too busy. You know, we can teach on that if you want to cause you should take it as I can I and they were like, yeah, should propose, submit a proposal, and, etc. And I taught the course. So for me, it was. Yeah, it was just some things I thought would be useful for myself.

Sanyam Bhutani  18:35  
For context there weren't a lot of courses around TensorFlow back in the day, I think not even the Nanodegree fro Udacity.

Chip Huyen  18:42  
Yeah, I think it might have been the first course on TensorFlow. [Okay] Maybe don't quote me on that.

Sanyam Bhutani  18:50  
For the little section. I'll also like to talk about machine learning jobs. So I know you've been working on an amazing book, you tweeted about it, and I got really excited about it.

Chip Huyen  19:00  
Yeah interviews.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:04  
We'll talk all about it but thanks to efforts from people like you, we have this huge pool of online courses now of which are great quality like courses from Stanford, MIT, all of the top institutes. And do you think someone who's just online educated in machine learning can they build equally interesting projects or someone who is enrolled in Stanford for example?

Chip Huyen  19:27  
Oh my god, I can tell you that like some of the best listening people I know not not all like a lot of people amazing people I know are self taught.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:39  
Okay, any favorite projects that you'd like to mention coming from self taught people.

Chip Huyen  19:47  
Um, you know, Musenet from Christine Payne.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:51  
For sure.

Chip Huyen  19:51  
She was a musician. Yeah, she did open AI I think as a scholar, and her project was musenet it which is super cool, Alec Radford from OpenAI is also taught and look met?????? from Google Brain, Alec Radford for who does ownership of GPT-2, Alok M,  also did a lot of work with Gans like DCGANs, he was he was so self taught because so many incredible people in in machine learning as was self taught, self taught but like yes I feel like education college, might might give you the fundamentals. But to be good you have to actively learn by yourself. [So] So I was talking to like people Stanford about the curriculum because I do want to teach a course there. And I realized that universities especially you know, research universities, a lot more focus on theories so even go to college or universities in my they might be good at theory, but you become really good practitioner it might work Better for your self anyway.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:54  
I definitely agree on that. So I've also finished my computer science degree just fresh out of college. And honestly, I feel I'm not a good programmer, which is the usual conception that anyone who's done a CS degree should be a good programmer.

Chip Huyen  21:15  
Because some schools are really good at teaching. So engineering. So I noticed my friends who learned software engineering in school so I first of all, I had my CS degree in computer science, right? So they they have conversations about theory, and they never taught us like how to use it. Like how to yeah, yeah, like, good. I have a way of doing something. You're just supposed to figure out how to do that by yourself. The traditional algortihms: big oh, but no, but I realized I was a pretty bad engineer just relied on what I learned in school. And so see other Stanford students and I was like Oh my God. And then I saw some of my good friend who went to some random school in Germany, Russia and they write beautiful code, wow that's amazing!

Sanyam Bhutani  22:09  
Do do do you think someone who's self taught can you envision them working on your team and how do they build a profile or good profile for the hiring people?

Chip Huyen  22:22  
Yes, certainly like, my I think I made a list of like some people that I know when I self taught and joined the company like Google Facebook ish. And Nvidia, I think I think we'd recently hire an intern who's a freshman. So he just finished his first year and I think he learned a lot of machine learning in school, is I think we were impressed by his resume portfolio project he did as a high school student just in his free time. So, yeah, and and so like I saw, I feel like it was so taught. If you if you care deeply about the field and you are able to show to recruiters that you, you do cool, you do cool stuff. Like whether it's publishing paper or publishing open source project or contributing to open source project. I think I remember it was like, I saw somebody mid mid, mid a pull request to an open source project. And I'd read MIT I was like Oh my God, this person is like, really good. It was so tough for him with his commenting on his initiative. Why did he also do it? Because I always be a really good person to work with because he clearly have a short enduring skill and he doesn't mind explaining him was the thing he's doing. I'm not sure when you work on project and like some people who are really great engineers because they don't explain themselves. No idea. Um, so yeah, so so so impressed in a in a in a issue like recommended him to like few companies that I know we're hiring people like him. So I think it's totally, totally doable. You know, self taught, and of course a lot of biosis in hiring. So a lot of people, I think he's more prominent for entry level like recent college graduate. So people rely on a lot of companies rely on our campus recruiting so they go to campus and try to hire students as a campus, like some company like more than half of their hires for my campus recruiting and what that means as they go to so few popular engineering schools. To my career. what is more epic, epic efficient for them are always easy get rough on referrals. So like he's a friend is a friend from MIT goes to Google, they the frame rate will forever from MIT. So I think I fall for junior roles. All of the companies usually it's hard for company to to evaluate the candidates well with just interviews, because because of candidate pre hasn't have a lot of work done before. So as a team, I rely on a weak signals like what school you go to more. So it provided some sort of like sanity check for for the company. They might be harder for people who don't go to fancy fancy names schools.

Sanyam Bhutani  25:30  
Again with a good open source profile maybe or just specifically for machine learning with maybe a good Kaggle profile, those could be good substitute for good.

Chip Huyen  25:45  
Lots of students also, what do you want what you want, you have as many signals as possible, as your signal to employers recruiters, are you going to make a good hire?

Chip Huyen  25:58  
Yeah, but it's definitely not substitution.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:02  
Yep. Um, let's say for for the situation. I'm a self taught ml engineer who's applying for an entry level job what sort of signals would you be looking for when looking at maybe a resume or a profile?

Chip Huyen  26:17  
Your resume is good. So definitely look as don't get help. If you haven't seen like a look at Have you done like kaggle competitions, even build models before there's an open source project. I would definitely look into if you have luck, then I would really like to see some technical some in depth technical post, which shows you not only like so so have to understand things well to be able to explain things. Yeah. So so basically like what what my manager told me a manager was very Chi to take pitch me how she like screen resumes. So he's so Maria Farzana measure really cares a lot about going above and beyond. I use it was like, actively trying to do more than what you told us student you just want to do the homework and nothing else, because it'll resume you and that person goes to a really good school. But like, they have nothing to show outside coursework. I wouldn't be like, Yeah, I don't know.

Sanyam Bhutani  27:24  
So coming back to the book to talk more about the book, you have shared an introductory chapter as well. We'll have that linked in the description, but could you maybe share maybe the inspiration for even starting to work on the book game for

Chip Huyen  27:38  
so I have so many friends applying for a job in machine learning. So I was I was like, additional system for like eight quarters. And they taught a course had like a lot of students and so many friends applying for job and what does it apply to try to help them as much as possible so she might Helping them like prepare a resume like preparing for interviews or even negotiating grip new today like to my friend have been have been helping the interviews told me as they get the offers and so forth like, way better than they expected. And like super happy with those yeah so um, so I've been like helping my friends or students and I hope to prepare for a long time. And I realize it's like they're not really good resource for machining in traditional software engineering interviews, or books or Cracking the Coding interview, for sure. Which which is a really good book, I read a book and I'm super impressed. So even though I disagree with some of the format of questions is mostly they My problem with those questions are they are they're very self contained questions. It means that when you saw them just no room for like, oh no Yeah, sure Hong Kong good or, and what better thing is a book lado of Griff operations or security skills? I don't see anything like that for machine learning.

Sanyam Bhutani  29:12  
That's me.

Chip Huyen  29:13  
Yes. And I've realized that over time I have like, as a touchable helping my friends prep. I just said the same thing over and over again. And so I went and talked to hiring managers there. So I we discuss the same problems. So talk maybe everything together in a book. So yeah, so I think it's a book for abroad with candidates in mind. But I saw it in the process. I've talked to a lot of hiring managers in stages interesting to understanding the process more. So machine learning in the industry is very new. And a lot of companies are still trying to figure out what was the best way to access candidate promotion and goals. So it's gonna be So so it's a feedback loop. Because I expect that some people wanted read this book, like some interviewers and receptive might change to start interviewing. And my mix the interview process better.

Chip Huyen  30:14  
Yes, that's my hope

Sanyam Bhutani  30:16  
for for both titles, they will sue for the hiring people and people applying as we like.

Chip Huyen  30:24  
Yeah, but mostly is for Kennedy.

Sanyam Bhutani  30:27  
That's really awesome. I'm really excited. And we hope to see the book come out pretty soon. So you also put a blog post recent blog posts where you analyze 16,000 actually exact figures, 15,008 97, Glassdoor reviews to understand the tech hiring culture. Yeah. Was this part of working on the book? And do you think there are any parallels or disconnects when compete with machine learning hiring interviews?

Chip Huyen  30:57  
I'm so waiting Think so? Yes, it was part of the interview in my research for the book because I really wanted to standard take or hiring pipe. Well the reason is that machining interviews basically they spent is like, evolved out of the traditional technical hiring process. So it's wantonness in the fundamental also are there are not enough reviews on machining interviews to do a separate research on it. So I think, I think what is useful is, is where the whereas companies get candidates, because this is all very similar frustrations of when General and permission angle. So they were they come from campus recruiting from referrals, from recruiting, recruiting out. And also understand is indeed the experience for us whether candidates like has indeed a student's ability to experience and how much it correlates to how much time's a company spent on training interviewers. Different companies spend different amount Tom, training interviewers how to do how to conduct proper.

Sanyam Bhutani  32:09  
Okay. Um, I'm also

Sanyam Bhutani  32:13  
when I was researching for my a residency application so I interviewed for the gulia residency unfortunately, I didn't get in, but I think they aren't any even resources around. Sorry.

Chip Huyen  32:26  
Say it again either.

Sanyam Bhutani  32:29  
That's, that's where we really. So there aren't any, any proper analysis of how do these look like? So I'd really love to for other people as well analyze these better just software rules as well. Or maybe a rules if we can gather data, because even Glassdoor does show these open analysis, but there's no much depth to it.

Chip Huyen  32:58  
Yeah, it's really Like, what other public resource we can find out it is only as good as our data we can get our hands on, push through. And

Sanyam Bhutani  33:09  
I think another problem they would be the last two, especially like, when I got rejected, I didn't even go to the website to even leave a feedback because I was so disappointed. So all of these biases do creep in there as well.

Chip Huyen  33:23  
Yeah, so um, so I think so of course, a lot of biases in Glassdoor interview and put it in the in the course as well. Yeah, so exam very few. This is a very small percentage of people actually leaving feedback and think for anything online. And it's, like very sort of personality. Shoo, shoo, shoo, leave feedback online. And another thing is that like people who leave it back online are usually driven by either really good or really bad experience.

Sanyam Bhutani  33:55  
They

Chip Huyen  33:57  
and multiples are more prone to progress. reviews for the companies of the accepts it got an offer for commenting. So like all of that and like a lot of biases like that, which which makes the numbers I'm not as reliable as I hoped. But there's a value here is like if only the reviews have the same biases, they still might be useful to compare across companies.

Sanyam Bhutani  34:25  
Okay, now to talk more about the book you also said the introductory chapter upon a blog post. It's linked in the description of the podcast for those who want to check it out.

Chip Huyen  34:35  
Subscribe to get updates on the book when it comes out.

Sanyam Bhutani  34:41  
Please put it out as soon as possible. We all are really looking forward to it. But you mentioned that the book will be selected into three sections. Could you tell us a bit more about them and what led you to decide the structure?

Chip Huyen  34:54  
I'm just the first part is overview part is about a pipeline What you're what different machine guns mean? Because a lot of people ask me, What is it as a research engineer? What is a machine learning engineer expectation for startups and big companies because startups and big companies hire very differently? No. Yeah. Like, most companies can afford to hire a specialist and people who are good at very small niche things. But startups a wonderful who can do a lot of things at the same time. Also from big companies before like, you have a routine a routine task and companies might know exactly what he wants you for. But for stirrup, things change really fast. So maybe Yeah, so come large companies can afford nation specialist and smaller companies usually want to go for joste on us different for junior and senior roles. So for senior roles we will hire for skills more before Junior roles will hire for asked you. So is this of course in a different from company to company from team to Team gorgeou? Or is it

Sanyam Bhutani  36:09  
the intersection? I would assume So, between all of these factors who, even between the startups and the big companies and both the junior and senior position so people always find a mix up, for example, as to this whole boosting for the junior position requiring five or six years of experience. ml rule.

Chip Huyen  36:32  
It doesn't matter like I don't think he's like he had some experience I was talking about a new concept years of experience is extremely outdated. It's so easy to spend like years on the job and learn absolutely nothing. So I think like he is experiencing another one of those weak signals for look for was assumption that like, his own level of competence is proportional to the time you spend on the job which you all know was a true? Um, so so you know, I feel like I think like I'm fresh out of school, and I'm moving into senior engineer. So I don't think it has anything to do with user experience. Anyway. So yeah, so so the book has a lot of songs afford parties overview, like what different roles, different hiring pipeline, different kinds of interviews in my face, because different companies are still trying to experiment with different interview format. Also about how to recognize bendable questions or interview questions, how to prepare in general. So yes, so first part is overview of the entire hiring pipeline. So the second part would, of course, knowledge questions. So is the questions that have a deterministic answer. So first of all, like give us a data set how good K means clustering work on it become so so focus more on like how and why questions instead of just like explanation questions like one question, because concepts you can easily look online,

Sanyam Bhutani  38:11  
but only on the on site interviews or also the geek home assignments that many companies follow.

Chip Huyen  38:19  
Um, so I think we talked about earlier when

Chip Huyen  38:23  
I go away

Chip Huyen  38:26  
So, um, so there's a few questions. So let's talk to me about and it has this really nice philosophy is that if a piece of knowledge, it's easier or it can be easily acquired, is not worth less important. So I would test also a focus on question that is understanding. So the port port is open into questions. So the first that consists of like, machine learning system design, which is a very popular interview questions. I feel like every interview Company asked at least one of those machining, design questions for some associates like, how should be a recommendation system for Amazon, things like that. So it doesn't access I have one correct answer. So usually what this does is serves like a general framework, your personal question.

Chip Huyen  39:20  
And also, like another programming question is like debugging.

Chip Huyen  39:25  
So you have roles and it doesn't work. And how do you debug oil? Yeah, yeah. So that's it. So there's a three part. So yeah, so I push on, take home, take home project. So a lot of companies fragmenting with take home on project, so we will talk briefly on it.

Sanyam Bhutani  39:45  
Okay. And could you also talk about what research is going on behind this? Because I don't think there are any other resources on the questions or the hiring pipeline. So are you talking to a lot of people or what efforts are

Chip Huyen  39:58  
imagine how many

Chip Huyen  40:01  
So many, which is good, though I say to people, yeah. I think great about social media is that like, wonderful Africa knows I'm working on the book to send me a lot of emails and messages and just sharing with me the experience, which is absolutely amazing. I'm so grateful.

Sanyam Bhutani  40:20  
So in case you on the hiring scene, please hit these out to tip to make her book even better for us. We all will be thankful to you.

Chip Huyen  40:29  
Yes. Really nice. amazing people are super nice.

Sanyam Bhutani  40:35  
Did you start to see a common Titan? Maybe a positive or negative so far in all of the conversation, or is there still a lot of variance in the hiring pipeline?

Chip Huyen  40:46  
Yeah, there are a lot of variants The only some general skeleton. So just some things that can be annoying for folks. candidate is for example like when when interviewers ask an open ended questions and then expected one right answer so so like especially the interviewers who don't have a life experience or interviewers know only one way of doing things the ones that own questions and they just like force Kennedy to go execs and so they have in mind which is heart so that should be able to ask open ended questions you have your balls to expect open ended answers um yeah so a lot of interviewers are so so so you know just saying it's like you can only measure something as well as metal stick those so if they don't have to interview doesn't know the subject very well. You do have a we're not going to adequately probe deep into that feel like that aspect. Okay needs

Chip Huyen  41:56  
I'm also like interviewers

Chip Huyen  42:01  
Sometimes they have questions that get confused between just knowledge understanding for example, if candidates might might not be familiar with a term yeah and trip the candidates because they have no idea what is about but as soon as they understand if the mayor knows a little bit the answers so what sometimes interviews was just don't explain is like, Oh, this person doesn't know that. And they're just like dismiss the candidate. More questions that rely on spirit inside like no trick questions like if you realize that you get sorted very quickly, but you don't even come in and just my workflow conditions in the question before because if I was your answer that is ridiculous. Anything was a candidate ability, then you can just get lucky.

Chip Huyen  42:54  
Also say a lot of things way that you

Sanyam Bhutani  42:58  
would best in ways do how be Before we wait until the book comes out good best advice would you have for both titles the table so people who are working on the hiring scene and people who are applying for jobs

Chip Huyen  43:11  
so football apply for job. I would say preparing interview is not a short term project and doesn't mean can do in like, oh, whoa, okay. I mean even next week, how do we like I'm really bad engineer in our house. How do I become a gas engineer that we can't so it's a lifelong process. So starting from a portfolio of buildings and network understand the market. Yeah, there's a lot. So always be in preparation and it's really funny like the best time to interview is when you do need a job. So you know, for real, so like if you even if you're already in a job for like a long time, maybe like once a year and just like interview good. Another company to First of all, just you know what is what is out there?

Sanyam Bhutani  44:03  
Obviously, I hope no one is listening to this but I always keep applying on and off to any interesting posting just to have an idea of what's the hiring pipeline lake or what do they expect out of candidates even though I'm not when I'm not applying this

Chip Huyen  44:20  
I asked my friend to give me interviews and just like I'm looking for a job like what what do you ask candidates can you give me like a test or best interview? Sometimes it comes by and as you buy the food so so you and for recruiters, interviewers. So it's really funny how quickly interviewers forget. Let's say we're in interviews, in TV interviews, shoes just like a few months earlier, you know how a lot of companies as you get into the company you start a full time job is shadow few interviews, and scratching interview people yourself. So you like it not too much different from from candidate. So I really hope that interviewers can present themselves in the shoes of candidate and sympathize with them.

Sanyam Bhutani  45:09  
This this is one thing that I really respected when I interviewed for Google. So I did get to the on site stage is that it was really like a conversation with more of a peer or a colleague, for example, compared to other postings that are applied to which were like, pretty serious or literally like me talking to someone who's in a very senior position.

Chip Huyen  45:32  
Yeah, I think sometimes we have a great hiring pipeline. I think that's like, well, it's only for me as she's into processes that one way feedback is like candidates sometimes ask intuitively feedback, whether like on the interview, in in in pated, get feedback whether they get the job or not, right. But interviewers don't get feedback, how well did the conduct interview, so I hope that viewers can be more active in social Safety by Lucas as a candidate like what groupings interviews like workwear like I hope that I maybe maybe can be the after the decisions because even after on the spot and Candice want to be nice to say the interview was great you're amazing together the good side but I really hope that they have more feedback or interviewers

Sanyam Bhutani  46:21  
that that's a great tradition for again for many job postings they require someone to have a PhD or a Master's to be even applied to the posting Do you think that still holds or what would be a good substitute there and you

Chip Huyen  46:41  
and then there's certain companies different require creation DeepMind Say hi exclusively for for not exclusive in a job for the engineering go into the PhD before researcher in the PhD. I'm your so this children sort of companies but those companies are very, very minority. Yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:03  
You also shared amazing trade on courses or open free courses that one can follow. couldn't say more about that? And how did you pick those few courses because even if you search for a single course on probability, I'm sure you can find hundreds if not thousands of courses for every topic that one could think of.

Chip Huyen  47:24  
Um, so I had to admit that I didn't do it in an exclusive so she didn't test out like every other and

Sanyam Bhutani  47:32  
that's how it was it was honestly

Chip Huyen  47:34  
so so it's mostly so how I was a curriculum is is based on what I think's important for machine learning. And then I asked my friends for like, what is the best course on this topic and that topic, and also was based on my own experience, so like, test out those courses to see if things are good. So word mouth, a lot of word of mouth.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:59  
Okay. If you want to find a free curriculum, do check out the resources link will have your Twitter thread link.

Chip Huyen  48:07  
Yeah, so it's like 10 courses from, from math to machine learning theory shoe hands on deep learning course.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:17  
One of the interesting things that I'd really like to read more, there are a few blog posts maybe around this, but how can you better manage yourself a new following self taught course or just an online course because I've written about this I've actually one of my most famous blog post is how not to do an online course because I always go on in tangential directions. So that's again an open question.

Chip Huyen  48:42  
Yeah, I agree with you. I myself triadic I like horses and my success rate is pretty low. What a nice thing. I don't like sometimes like for me like I'm like a mess for few courses. Is that I feel like if once they want to do the entire thing, but sometimes they want to like learn I want to learn the concept in they focus on that part of Ali. And our show depends on different styles of learning for me like I learned the best by doing. So I think I have a horrible thing is I'm like, just tried to do things were to do any doesn't work with like, Oh shoot, how do you make it work? And then I go back and recently joshan so far, of course, it isn't time I try to do the exercise first. Okay, before I do. Yeah,

Sanyam Bhutani  49:34  
that's, that's where I usually mess up. For example, I'm a huge fan of fast day. And when I was trying, I wanted to complete the course from end to end. But when you start looking for a concept, you go down the rabbit hole, from one Twitter thread to another goes to another Wikipedia page, and then you're off to another completed project. So that's a talent in itself with all of these online courses, I think.

Chip Huyen  49:57  
Yeah, I think you miss you like this side. That Juna finish this course no matter what and you know just I think even require a lot of discipline Yeah. But it's sometimes a good idea like when when you stop doing it because you really think for someone to bring value to us and you should force yourself

Sanyam Bhutani  50:19  
it's also talent when I know many people who have a full time job and are falling a course or when you sign up for a kaggle competition which is a full time job sometime and then you want to follow goes along with that.

Chip Huyen  50:34  
I think it's really good to learn online when you have a girlfriend to do when you are ready to join a group of people. And this is their motivation and keep you accountable. Because when you do it by this is very easy to just like stop and nobody's cost. So for me to do something that I know that I have a high chance of creating a tell a lot more about it. So as I like to tell them before, we're discussing making Okay even don't keep my worst bonus Josh me, or my friends aka she's like, oh, how how's that thing going? I was like, oh, oh, I haven't done it for like two weeks now Why are you not?

Sanyam Bhutani  51:14  
To be another that's another plug for my is that we had the CEO sharpest minds on the show and he said the exact same advice, who they're working on, again, helping people get jobs in the data science team. So do check that episode out as well, in case you want to know more about that. And I've also I was an active contributor to an online community called Data Set Data Science network. So please go to DS and $80 in case you want to join a bunch of online study groups. Okay. So coming to your open source and nonprofit efforts, could you tell us more about them and I think you recently tweeted out about Viet, a very, you also advisor. So could you tell us about that?

Chip Huyen  52:03  
Those are nonprofit organizations that are in to teach. So we we have courses on a machine learning

Chip Huyen  52:11  
on AI

Chip Huyen  52:12  
for people in Vietnam.

Chip Huyen  52:15  
Yeah, so

Chip Huyen  52:17  
it's small right now but we are growing slowly slowly growing. And a lot of students of previous courses are so not ta for for the future courses and have been doing really cool project been winning competitions and whatnot. They also publish an open source project you should never check out is it a.org. We also have summit when they organize the organizer, first summit in Vietnam was to provide a place for people interested in AI Julie come and talk and meet each other. So I'm like I'm advisors wishes. We means I don't do a lot. I try. So it's one of those things like, I really, really likes organization I wish I could spend more time to be worth why of the title of Isaac.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:19  
How can we better help such open communities or even with a for that matter, so I'm not from Vietnam, I'm from India, but if I'd like to support the project, or support the motivation behind it,

Chip Huyen  53:32  
um, I think like, um, if you want, you can do something similar for the community. And we will be happy to share like, our curriculum, or how should I organize the courses, so it's just on trying URL. So over time, we will learn certain things and we would be very happy if anybody wants to replicate them more. Okay.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:58  
So please do check out the website. In You want to start a community?

Chip Huyen  54:04  
MIT sorry. We don't know when the next summit so many of you know yet but like what happened between nice which is joined,

Sanyam Bhutani  54:12  
don't give up do follow chip in that case because I'm pretty sure you'll Tweet, tweet out about that whenever that's ready. Yeah. Why was why was this aspect important to you so because you were already involved in in a college curriculum, you're also working on the online course and now you're at Nvidia at a full time job while working on the book, also contributing to community so why is the community aspect also important to you?

Unknown Speaker  54:43  
Um,

Chip Huyen  54:44  
I really like it. I think um, so for me, it was just like, I think I have been very fortunate. I caught a lot of help during my career. And I think for me, everybody wants Help people who used to be in my shoes, like for just starting out.

Unknown Speaker  55:06  
I just hope that

Chip Huyen  55:08  
I can help them in some way. I'll be bought in anyway. So yeah, I think for me, this is really important. So for even for the book, my friend was like, Are you thinking like you're going to get a publisher and I'm just like, even going to publishers, it was truly want to like, retain the digital copy for it. I really want to have like some bio free version for students, because I know students in Vietnam or India might not be able to afford buying an expensive book. So now, this very important I want to assume for some people are in shape provide people with equal opportunity.

Sanyam Bhutani  55:47  
That's that's really kind of, you know, shifting the gears a bit to talk about cutting edge research. This is huge outflow of information, what advice of best tips do you have to follow the continued development in machine learning.

Chip Huyen  56:04  
So for me, um, I wouldn't want you to think of myself as somebody who go on archive and like check. Why don't go on. I, I don't read I read I go on archive maybe like once a month as in a screening thing hmm

Sanyam Bhutani  56:22  
do you sort out to sort out his project by to to query the sort of people's

Chip Huyen  56:28  
Now I use Twitter a lot. I use what I was what I want. I want a quick query like your but let's say for getting news. I use Twitter a lot as a subscribe to a couple of newsletters that I think have an incredible amount of information. I'm mostly Twitter and by talking to people gossipy. Yeah.

Sanyam Bhutani  56:51  
So that's that to the water cooler conversations are like at Nvidia. That's what the water cooler conversations are like in ridaz. Remote into

Chip Huyen  57:03  
a year so we subscribe to some channel The Slack channel on a burning bush share babers was by cool my co workers and so share but I think that's very important to people who share the same interests as you. So so you get like some people interest them super interests you as well. So just a network we were sharing papers and go try to go to conferences. I don't go to a lot of conferences they try to go through a couple year. Cliff It was very nice on a nlb so I go to like an epi conference and also I clear on new IPS.

Sanyam Bhutani  57:41  
Okay, now, my final question before we end the call would we would best advice do you have for beginners who are definitely interested in deep learning have maybe tried it but then start to feel intimidated because it's my TV or it feels advanced?

Chip Huyen  57:59  
I wasn't Sup intimidations and I'm never gonna go away.

Chip Huyen  58:03  
I still feel

Chip Huyen  58:07  
yeah still. So don't don't like it stop you because people feel the same way. It's not about comparing yourself to other people is more about comparing yourself today. Choose yourself yesterday even making progress. So as long as you're making progress, you're getting somewhere.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:27  
Okay? That's great advice. Also want to ask you so you've written I think, three best selling books on your travel. So can we experience and English was no expect in English version of that, or any upcoming release on that?

Chip Huyen  58:44  
I'm too lazy to translate

Chip Huyen  58:47  
and then write a new book.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:49  
Okay. Okay.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:52  
Thank you so much for doing this interview. And thank you so much for all of your efforts in the community and for the book, and everything in the Today

Chip Huyen  59:02  
I'm so glad I feel like it's really good for me to hear just like when I tried to do something and somebody find useful this like, it's making me really happy.

Sanyam Bhutani  59:14  
I'm definitely who's fans.

Chip Huyen  59:16  
Okay, thanks. Nice

Sanyam Bhutani  59:19  
liquid breeze. Thanks so much for joining.

Chip Huyen  59:22  
Have a good day.

Sanyam Bhutani  59:33  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message. You can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to time data science.

