Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:45  
Hello, and welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I interview John Miller, data scientist at h2o.ai. John Miller is one of the peoples similar from the league of guests on the show who started working in data science, even before it was called data science. And in this interview, we talk about his journey and how data science and his work has evolved. Over the years, John has contributed to different roles. And we talk about all of them, including his current work at h2o.ai. We also discussed his winning solution to the NFL first and future analytics Kaggle competition, where John had even created a real world impact via Kaggle competition, yes, via Kaggle competition even in the previous year where he had won the competition and his findings led to the change of a rule. Similar to last year, John has again won the competition this year as well. And we talked about his findings about the NFL and his discoveries while working on the competition. I also ask John, why is football not called hide egg? Jokes aside, this is a conversation where we really connect Kaggle, real world data science and learning and improving on data science in a single interview. So without further ado, here's my interview with John Miller. Please enjoy the show. And a quick reminder to the non native English speaking audience. Please remember to go to YouTube and enable the subtitles for this video for a better watching experience. Those have been manually checked and re uploaded. For now, here's the conversation. Please enjoy the show. 

Sanyam Bhutani  2:42  
Hi, everyone. I'm excited to be talking to another maker on the podcast today. John, thank you so much for joining me on the series.

John Miller  2:50  
You're welcome. Thanks for having me.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:52  
So I want to start by talking about your background. And you've been winning the NFL competition for two years straight and usually I would expect someone like this to have a CS background. Maybe I'm biased and propagating that. But I found out you did your bachelor's and master's in mechanical engineering. How did data science come into the picture for you? When when did you find your passion?

John Miller  3:14  
Well, when I, when I got my masters in engineering, I went through a dual degree program, and it also offered a master's in business. And I focused a lot in operations research. And so that's what kind of, you know, led me into that area, doing a lot of Applied Statistics, optimization, all of the things that used to be associated with OR, over the years, you know, I, I found that, you know, I started hearing about data science and I started hearing about things like random forest and, and all of these cool things, decision tree models and such. and realized that, you know, I hadn't kept up with with the tools and so I actually had a chance I had a chance to do some work, kind of get up to speed when I had a knee injury. So you know, I was I was laid up for about a week or two, and just said, alright, now's the perfect time for me to start learning about what's new and data science and in these things and just jumped in and just really loved it and turn my focus that way and went forward.

Sanyam Bhutani  4:13  
Okay, no talking about your background, you worked across multiple roles in your previous life. Can you tell us about the industries that you've contributed to that, I think would help us connect the dots of how you got to be becoming a data scientist today?

John Miller  4:27  
Sure, yeah. So, you know, when I came out of graduate school, I took a job in consulting, which I never thought I would do. But it turned out to be great, because prior to that, I had only government experience. I didn't have really, you know, corporate sector experience. And so it was a great way for me to see lots of different companies and see many environments in a fairly short amount of time. I mean, over the years, it's been a while but you know, I've probably been in in and out of over a dozen companies and most of them like larger fortune 500 companies. So so that was really helpful. And, and yeah, I've done work, you know, there's most of my most of my work has been, you know, functionally oriented, so you know, towards operations improvement and Applied Statistics, not so much industry related, but I found myself working a lot in financial services, did a, you know, probably two or three years in oil and gas, and a little bit in media. So by and media, it was a, you know, really the large cable company providers. And so, you know, in the US, we have Charter and Comcast and those sorts of companies. So I did some work with them. And it really just gave me you know, sort of a broad base of knowledge and business processes and, and things like that.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:46  
That sounds almost like you were working with big data before it was called Big Data. Was that the case?

John Miller  5:52  
Yeah, so in some cases, it was so there was a there was a project I had years ago, where a big cable company was taking over the properties of another cable company. And so they do swaps and that sort of thing, you know, from time to time, and they had to migrate millions of customers in the US onto their new system. And, and the the big thing was all around the, the internet and the wireless portion. So it was just a disaster to begin with. They found that it was it was a lot harder than they imagined and things started going south. And so they asked me to come in and a couple other folks. And one of the things we did then was we built a forecasting model, and it was really applying, you know, it's really applying a lot of, you know, things that we know is data science today. There was some there was some time series forecasting, but then there was also some regression modeling and those and we actually made an ensemble which before I even you know, heard the term ensemble, we were combining these because they you know, they each brought different things to the table. So combining those models really worked well. And we were able to forecast what we did with that as we were able to forecast the daily volume of service calls that they were going to get. And then that allowed them to staff up in advance and not be so reactive. And they were able to react much better for the you know, the remaining couple of months during the migration.

Sanyam Bhutani  7:20  
Awesome. So you just described the complete data science pipeline to us. 

John Miller  7:26  
That's right. 

Sanyam Bhutani  7:27  
Now coming to what you're currently working on, you're a customer data scientist at h2o.ai, can you tell us more about the task you're working on? And why do we need to have customer data scientist, isn't automail supposed to replace us all?

John Miller  7:42  
That's a good question. And so you know, it's it's funny because people say that about every technology that comes along. Every every new field you know, people say this is going to replace us all and even when I you know, when I used to do a lot of operations improvement, we would we would take something that you know was taking people hours to do and, and and change it in two minutes. And very rarely, I think only one time out of many, where people actually let go or even reassigned, what happens is the same with, you know, with auto ML and driverless is it frees up data scientists to do more value added work, you know, so, you know, you see all the statistics out there, how data scientists spend so much time prepping data and all of this, you know, the feature engineering, which you're still going to need, but really just like, you know, trying many different algorithms, all the different encodings that one can do, you know, combining features, that sort of thing. And then and then doing feature selection, those things take a lot of time manually, even if you have a system for it. So so yeah, I think what driverless does, and this is, you know, kind of our pitches that it automates a lot of that, the data scientists can then spend their time working with the business owners to figure out you know what's important to them. They can design the models with the right output, they can think about which metrics to use all of these good things that you'll always, you know, at least for the foreseeable future, you'll need a data scientist for.

Sanyam Bhutani  9:12  
I don't want to sound too smart, because I'm not. But I, again falls back to the philosophy, critical philosophy, the question of being more creative as human beings and leaving the machines to do the dumb work, so to speak.

John Miller  9:24  
Yeah, I mean, that's, that's it in a nutshell, for sure. Absolutely. Yeah. And then you asked it. So you asked if I think about what I did, or what I do now, and my role?

Sanyam Bhutani  9:34  
Yes. Is it, does it involve having chai with the Grand Masters all the time, or are you working on problems? Or are you translating business problems into driverless AI?

John Miller  9:44  
Yes, chai with the grandmasters. We, we sit around and we you know, philosophize about data science and no, I'm not a Grand Master, but I do have some chai tea. So I did bring that and it's very tasty my latte just don't have 

Sanyam Bhutani  9:57  
I have H2O next to me, I think it's better for my health.

John Miller  10:01  
Chai tea, we got it covered. So I'll I'll answer your question. First, I want to I do want to address the, you know, the chai tea thing. One thing that is really cool about my current role is that, you know, I have access to the Grand Masters, you know, because we all work together. And even though we're not on the same projects, we have slack and all of the great tools that we have now. And so I see a lot of times and you know, others, you probably see this, you probably see it where somebody has an issue, and they'll say, hey, I'm trying to figure this out, and they'll put it out on slack. And then, you know, one of the Grand Masters will come back and say, hello, and maybe try this because this is what's worked for me. Yeah. And so even that real time collaboration, you know, with with folks like me on the customer side is pretty cool. Yeah, so and so what I do you know, is is I work on the customer side, I work with folks who are companies who have bought our products, usually driverless AI, and in this case, I'm working with a large accounting firm. And they do, you know, they provide various accounting services, including audits and that sort of thing. And they're using driverless AI to help predict some certain things and to automate one of their processes. And you know, it's one of those just highly manual grinding processes in the past. You know, you have you have paper documents or image documents, and you can OCR those documents, you can run them through OCR, but it still doesn't give you the context of what's on the paper, you know, so you can have a number and maybe it's a date, or maybe it's an account number, or maybe it's a balance, it could be any number of things. You know, words words, of course, in different context mean different things. And so it's always taken a person to look at that and say, okay, here's what I'm looking at and, and enter that into the right column of whatever they're, you know, digitizing their system. And so so what they're doing now is they're using driverless AI to help classify those documents in the terms and everything in the documents. And I help with that. So I'm helping them build that pipeline so that it's a production level pipeline where they can take, you know, I mean, they're a global firm, and they have, you know, these documents coming in from all sources. And so they want to be able to basically take them in and with about a two minute turnaround right now, you know, digitize those documents and capture the information the way it needs to be captured.

Sanyam Bhutani  12:28  
I want to talk about another aspect, like you elaborated of the pipeline for us in a very neat fashion. And you talked a lot about this in a blog post that I will have in the show notes. But did you translate the business problem for us? And I know you're a proponent of talking to business persons as a data scientist, because those two worlds don't connect so much. And I'd love to know your thoughts about how you got better at it or why you why do you think it's important for all the data scientists to be able to have that skill?

John Miller  12:58  
Sure. So You know, for me, it was something that came as a result of the work that I did. You know, I started out in operations, and I worked as an operations consultant. And, you know, found myself at some point, you know, being a team lead, a project lead, manager, that sort of thing. And so there my job was really to be that person that worked with the business folks all the time, help them translate it into something that team could work on. And, and ended up doing like a lot of just what I would call general management, consulting. And then at some point, you know, I realized that I was doing more PowerPoint than Excel or data science or anything, and I, and I, like, all right time out, you know, I'm a, I'm a numbers guy, and I want to get back to doing numbers. And so that's what I did. I started you know, that's when I really got, you know, fully back into data science and actually doing a lot of coding and building predictive models. But, you know, the good thing was that those years of experience have helped me understand the process from a business person's perspective. And I've been in a lot of meetings where, you know, especially technical people present. And the questions are a lot of times the same, you know, like, why are you telling me this? And so, you know, as data as data scientists, you know, it's, it's, I think it's important to always talk about why you're doing something and kind of give the bottom line up front. And there's other things like that, that, you know, can help give you things from a from a business person's perspective. So, so, you know, doing those things just really helps communicate, I learned those firsthand, and a lot of times the hard way because I've been that person to, you know, I've been the person that starts talking about the different algorithms and whatever. And, you know, someone stopped me and said, okay, just tell me what this means to us, and what we should do about it. So okay, let's start with that. So, yeah, so so I think it's important. I think it's always good to get out and talk with folks and a different perspective. It's very easy, especially if you're introverted. And I am, I'm an introvert. And so I like to sit in front of my computer and do my work and respond to emails. But I found that if you know, if you force yourself to go meet somebody, talk to them a little bit, even just a phone call, you can learn so much about what's important to them. And that's and that makes you better as a data scientist, it really helps you focus your work.

Sanyam Bhutani  15:26  
Okay, coming to another term that synonymous with data science, and also is to Kaggle. Can you tell us how did your Kaggle journey start? How did you discover the platform and sign up for your first competition then?

John Miller  15:39  
Yeah, when I was so when I was actually recovering from the from the knee surgery, I was reading up on data science, and there were a lot of great blogs and things out there. And I need to find out who it was. But there was a really good blog that I was reading. And the guy who wrote it said, you know, look coursework is great and this and that, but don't delay. Just get out and do it. You know, he said, go on Kaggle and start on the Titanic competition. And so that's what I did. And of course, you know, a lot of it, I had no idea what I was doing. At the time, I worked primarily in R so now I use mostly Python, but at the time I used R scripts and, and reading, you know, and Kaggle's so great, because, you know, you can see these really world class notebooks or scripts that, you know, Masters and Grand Masters have written, and it's good stuff. And so I just started going through that and learning it and you know, doing a lot of looking at the API documents for the libraries to figure out what those functions meant. A lot of Stack Overflow googling, which I still do today. And just started building, you know, building my knowledge that way. And it was it was great advice. It's advice that you know, I also give people is there, where do we start? What do we do is like, Well, you know, when you think you're when you think you're ready or even before you think you're ready just go go try Titanic, you know, go go there and look at someone's code and just copy it over and look at the outputs and, and kind of learn as you go. And I found it to be a great way to pick things up. So that's how I get started. And then, you know, like most people, like once you pick up a little bit of knowledge, you try your first real competition. And so I and so I did that. And of course, I was just dreadful, but I kept on going. And you get to a point where you just, it's, it's, you get hooked, you know, it's like, just so fun, and you're trying to climb that leaderboard and tune your algorithm and there's the social aspect of and I like all.

Sanyam Bhutani  17:37  
Okay, now, do you think or if you could point to any examples of how Kaggle has impacted your professional skill set or your professional life?

John Miller  17:47  
Yes, I think they've, they've been pretty closely intertwined, actually, because a lot of the things that I've applied as a data scientist, I either first saw on Kaggle and or I saw somewhere else and then you know research Kaggle to see what others were doing. You know, one good example is like with unsupervised learning. And so I was working on a project where we were trying to basically classify vendors, we're trying to identify vendors based on their behavior, and find the ones who were not acting within the current guidelines is probably the best way to put it. And yet, we had all this transaction data, we had millions of rows of transaction data. And so one of the things I had learned about on Kaggle was teasing (?). And so you know, that's a, that's an unsupervised method where you can, it's technically it's, you know, reducing dimensions, it's dimensionality reduction, but you're taking all these different variables, all these different factors, and you're transforming it into a two dimensional plot. And you just look at the plot and you see how, you know how the, how these objects are grouped, or how these you know how in this case, how the vendors were grouped. And so yeah, it's learned I learned a lot about it and some good tips and tricks in there and was able to apply that in my job. Also, you know, I think at some point, I had a client who wanted to do a lot of things in Python. And at the time, I was, you know, like I said, working primarily in R, and so I, you know, and I was up front, I said, well, I'm, you know, not really all that good at Python, I'm a beginner, and they said, we don't care, we'll you know, do what you can. And so, that worked out. So I got on Kaggle. And I would look at, you know, for a certain competition I would look at an R notebook, and then I would look at a Python notebook. And in a lot of cases, now, you can even see where somebody wrote something, and then somebody else ported it to the other language as a comparison, you know, so, that sort of thing has just been very valuable to me, you know, the ability to just go in and kind of get, you know, sort of latest, you know, almost leading edge techniques. Really good, well structured code. That sort of thing. And that's probably you know, that's probably another thing, you know, I don't come from a developer background at all. And so like writing good code is is not something that came naturally to me. And there's different definitions of that, of course, but you know, I'd say, like writing good data science code, you know, just just good language nice and tight, not overly, you know, hierarchical and all that good stuff. I learned I learned most of that from other people. A lot of times the guys I work with now.

Sanyam Bhutani  20:30  
Okay, now I want to talk about the competition where you absolutely knock it out of the park, quite literally, the NFL competitions. But before we talk about your recent win, can you help us set the stage about the competition? And what's it all about? And I think it's one of the unique competitions where you actually got to create a ripple in the world and impact in the world. So we'll also talk about that.

John Miller  20:54  
Yes, absolutely. So yeah, the the NFL has sponsored two competitions over the past couple of years. And the first one was was last year, about a year and some months ago. And it was sponsored by the health and safety group. So professional football, we're talking about American football, of course, professional football in the US, is a dangerous sport. There were a lot of people getting hurt. And at the time, and still, concussions had became a big thing. And a lot of players are getting concussions and and the NFL had had been taking measures for a couple of years to reduce concussions. And then I don't know how it started exactly. But they decided to release their data publicly, to the data science community on Kaggle and ask for help. And it was it was a pretty bold move, right? Because, you know, you think about how sports groups and other companies, you know, protect their data like that. A lot of times, the last thing they do is put it out there for people to look at because you can start finding things and maybe pointing fingers you know, where, where you shouldn't and, and whatnot. So so they did that. And it was I think it was a big success. You know, it was it was exciting because it was sports related and and people like that. But you know, also I liked it because it was it was safety related. So, you know, we weren't just trying to make, you know, people run faster or go farther on a play. It was like to keep people from getting hurt. And so they've done that now for two years and the format, so the format is an analytics competition, they call it and there have been just a couple of those. I think Kaggle just released a third one in the past few days. Analytics competitions are quite different from the typical machine learning comp on Kaggle. They instead of having a, you know, a specific training set and test set of data and maybe some other data, and being asked to provide a machine learning model, you're given some data, you're given the context and then you're basically given given a goal. So you're giving you're given a business objective. Right? So in this case, you know, the first one was we want changes to the rules. We're asking for recommended changes to our current rules that will help reduce concussions, on and specifically on punts on punt plays. So a punt in a putt for if you don't follow football, it's just a type of kick that occurs during the course of play. So when a when a team can't advance the ball any further they can choose on fourth down or any down really, to punt the ball away. And so it's a it's a free standing kick.

Sanyam Bhutani  23:39  
I'm sorry, what's, what's a foot down and the other term you had mentioned?

John Miller  23:44  
Oh, yes, absolutely. Yeah, I said you I just I make assumptions here. So so in football players typically or teams typically have four down four tries, they have four tries to go 10 yards. And so football is a little bit unique in that it's not a fluid game. It's a series of plays that start and stop. And so when a play starts, you know, there's a, there's a, they call it the line of scrimmage. And so you start the play, you get to run the ball or pass the ball until the play stops, either someone gets tackled or the ball drop, what have you, and then they start the second play at that point. So you get to advance the ball forward, hopefully, four times, if you make it to 10 yards, then they reset your downs and you have four more downs to go another 10. 

Sanyam Bhutani  24:36  
Okay.

John Miller  24:37  
If you get the four, four down and you still have a long way to go, so you still have eight yards to go. Chances are you're gonna wanna punt the ball and kick it away. So, they bring in the punter, and the punter you know, basically takes the ball from the snapper and just kicks it standing up kick, kinda free kicks it as far as he can to the right place, and there's somebody down there waiting to catch it and run it back.

Sanyam Bhutani  25:03  
Okay, got it.

John Miller  25:04  
Yeah, and and what happens is, it's a very chaotic play, there are people running in at high rates of speed from the other side of the field, at all different times, and it could be dangerous, and and so yeah they have a fair amount of concussions, probably at the time anyway, close to twice the rate of concussions on a punt, on a typical play.

Sanyam Bhutani  25:28  
Got it.

John Miller  25:29  
So yeah, you know that was the objective, they said hey this is the objective, and then, you know what, what we were asked to do, was to analyze the data and submit a report. And so that was really the final product, the report, uh and also a few slides, so sort of an overview slide deck, that contained your recommendation, your methodolgy, you know, your analysis to show your work, all that good stuff, and they were gonna fine the analysis to the report that they thought would give them the most, you know, advantage.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:07  
You know, I've been I've been wondering all this while and maybe if you as an NFL fan could elaborate why is NFL called football and not handball or hide egg?

John Miller  26:18  
Hide egg, I like that one. Yes. You know that that question came up. I think at the competition last year people are like, why is this even called football. And so? So somebody somebody researched it and I brushed up on it, it was a, it goes back to the origin of the game, you know, so like, football in America has been around since I think like the early 1900s or so. And it actually came from rugby football and soccer. And so the sports all kind of come from the same lineage. And I think at some point someone was, you know, calling it rugby football or Australian Football the time or what have you. And so they started calling this game football. And it was really it was really more about like running the ball and that sort of thing, so it looked a lot like rugby I think in those early days. And then over time, especially like in the last 10 years, and especially in professional football, it's really become all about passing like there's so much passing that happens now you wouldn't even you know probably recognize the game from when we were kids and everyone was running it means still the same game but but the dynamics have changed as you know as as people change in tech and technology and passing ability all that good stuff.

Sanyam Bhutani  27:30  
Awesome. Now talking about how the dynamics have changed and your contributed to this euro proud contributed list, I'll definitely have your amazing kernel linked in the show notes. So please, audience to check it out. But if you could also share with us in an audio format of your discoveries this year and what interesting changes that that lead to.

John Miller  27:51  
Yeah, sure. So you know, with that, the competition last year, the NFL chose four finalists set of the participants And I was one of the finalists. And then we all went to Atlanta that year to present to the NFL. And they took it. They took it very seriously. They actually, I found out that they had the head of the Rules Committee. I think it's technically called the competition's committee. But the guy that runs the competition's committee for the NFL actually reviewed the reports and he read all of the reports. And he was there for the presentation, that the head of health and safety and the head of the head and head of the health and safety team, were all there. And the Commissioner of the NFL was there. His name's Roger Goodell: He's on TV all the time talking about football. He's there as well. And so they took it very seriously. And they very quickly I think what happened is they very quickly looked at the different ideas to figure out what they could use. And I had one recommendation, but that they happen to like, and that was involving something called a blindside block. And so what happens on punt is that you know, the ball is kicked across the field. Somebody on the receiving team catches it and starts running. Well, people from the team that kick the ball, if you can imagine, are running now down to tackle that person with the ball. And as they're running to tackle, you know, what first happens is when the when the play starts. The people who are on the receiving team, the receiving team, they have people there that are just trying to actually tackle the punter before he can pump the ball. And so that's what you know, they're trying to tackle the punter, but almost always the punter gets that ball out. And so they have to turn around and go help their teammate who just caught the ball. And what happens is you have people coming in, you know, just from all different angles and this and you know, there's, there's this blindside block where a player is fixated on tackling someone and someone from the other team comes in from behind or from a rear sort of quarter and just hit some hard. And that has been legal in the past as long as it's a clean block. In other words, it's not below the waist, it's not to the head. It's not headfirst, it's just, you know, slam up against the person from from behind. So the problem;

Sanyam Bhutani  30:15  
Sorry the block here also refers to tackle or I'm not sure what the term is block.

John Miller  30:21  
Sure, sure. So a block is a little bit different, although they can look the same and they can result in the same, a tackle is specifically against a person holding the ball. 

Sanyam Bhutani  30:30  
Okay.

John Miller  30:31  
So if I'm holding the ball and you come jump on me and take me down, that's a tackle. 

Sanyam Bhutani  30:36  
Okay.

John Miller  30:37  
If, if I don't have the ball, and you come flying in and hit me as hard as you can to knock me across the room. That's a block. 

Sanyam Bhutani  30:45  
Got it.

John Miller  30:46  
Yeah. Or sometimes blocks are more passive, you know, where you're just you're just standing still and you're not letting me around you. That's also a block. But in a punt in a punt. These these blocks are pretty violent collisions. And you know, you can actually and like if, if you see somebody coming toward you, and they hit you, you know, body, the body, you're expecting it, and you might go somewhere, but you'll you know, you'll probably get up and be okay. If someone hits you from behind when you're planning on something else, and you don't know what's happening, it can, it can mess you up, you know, for one thing, I mean, you know, your head's going to have movement that it wouldn't have otherwise. And so that's the big thing is the head acceleration. A lot of people you know that because there are several people in the same space at the same time, a lot of helmets not together, that sort of thing. And so it turned out to be a pretty dangerous place. So one of the things that I recommended was, in certain cases, which are when when everybody is running back, basically toward that person catching the ball in the running back sort of away from the other goal line, blindside block should not be allowed, because they're not they're not as crucial to what a blocker does. And it's it's a, you know, without getting into the dynamics too much. It's just it's not a huge part of the game as much as it just gets people hurt. So, you know, wait for everyone to turn around and then do what you want, you know, then block them do your football thing. But anyway, that's what I recommended and showed, you know, that it would reduce, you know, some number of concussions per year. Not a huge amount, but it was, you know, probably at least like six to eight concussions per year, which, you know, over a 10 year period that of maybe a player has that's, that's pretty significant. So yeah, the NFL heard that and they acted on it very quickly. And before this current season started, which would have been back in July or August for the preseason. They had, they had done their homework on it. They took that recommendation to the owners, the team owners, and the team owners approved it. And so it's approved as a conditional rule, I think where they're going to test it out for a year ot two, and then decide whether to keep it so far. I think it's been, it's been pretty positive from, you know, from a football perspective. Fans don't fans don't always like it because, you know, there are a lot of fans out there that still like the hits and like all that stuff and so so there's a bit of a, you know, there's a bit of a mindset change that goes with it where you have to, you know, you have to kind of make sure people understand that it's, it's not good when players get concussions for their for in the long term. So, yeah, but yeah, so that was that was really cool. It's really cool to see that and then, you know, just to see any company sort of act on something as fun but being in sports, I think it was extra fun for me. 

Sanyam Bhutani  33:39  
Okay, awesome. Again, for the audience of all of these in depth will be linked in the show notes. So please go ahead and check those out. Now, I want to ask this question for all of us, Grand Master aspirants or Master aspirants, you think driverless AI can help us become a Master or a Grand Master even.

John Miller  33:59  
Let's see. I yes, I mean, I think it can it can help you be you'll be a lot better. So, specifically for Kaggle, I would say no, not really, because the machine learning competitions are open source. And so if you win a competition and you use driverless AI, then you know, you're going to have to answer to how you got there and someone will see. So but you know, I mean, to the, to the less literal part. Yeah, absolutely. There's some things, I don't know if it would truly get you to, like a Grand Master level, because they're still, you know, like we said, some things that people have to do, but it definitely adds a lot of, you know, power to your toolkit. So, you know, and I can say for me, like, I'm usually pretty good at dissecting the problem up front, and I can find some good features. So when I go to feature engineering, you know, I'll come up with some good domain based features that I think work pretty well. Different aggregations, you know, all that sort of thing. But then like, you know, when it comes to trying at different algorithms and hyper tuning parameters and selecting features, that takes me a lot of time in and there are some things I just don't know, you know, or maybe I I heard about a long time ago, then I forgot, and I don't have a good system. Because I think that's one thing a lot of Grand Masters have is they have a good system to test and iterate through these things, driverless AI does that like it has the iteration already built in and it tries all the different things. I mean, it was it was programmed by Grand Masters and continues to be as they use their, you know, prize winning techniques from Kaggle. And so that's a big part of it anyway. And so yeah, it will, it will definitely help you build a better machine learning model. I don't, you know, and I'm relatively new to the company but I've been aware of the product for probably about three years now two or three years. And I don't know of a case yet. I'm sure there is one. But most of the cases I've seen the the driverless AI model will improve on what people have already done and will even like, do it in just a lot less time. And so it becomes pretty compelling for them to see that. Okay, this, this is good stuff for us. 

Sanyam Bhutani  36:23  
Okay. Now, I apologize. I only had 11 cups of chai today. So I'm a little chai deprived, but I think I missed your this is contribution to NFL. I think the blindside block was from the previous year's solution. Could you elaborate from about your findings from this year? And again, it's also available as a colonel, will you share the report for the audience?

John Miller  36:46  
Yeah, definitely. So this year, the competition was about reducing lower limb injuries. So that's knees, ankles and feet. And it's also a very big problem for for the NFL and for I mean for players for teams, not only not only because of the injury, but you know, it's it's the severity. I mean, it's not the number of injuries per se, although there are a lot. It's the severity, you know, there are a lot of ACL tear. So the ACL is a ligament in the knee, anterior cruciate ligament, I believe. It basically keeps your lower leg from hyperextending and such. And it's very easy to tear in a sport like football where there's a lot of lateral movements. I think soccer players must also have a fair amount of ACL ACL tears, basketball, it's it's it's, it's pretty common to sports like that. And so the NFL wanted to do something about that they wanted to reduce those. They also wanted to have a special look, they wanted to reduce those in the context of looking at synthetic turf versus natural turf. And so in the NFL right now you have about two thirds of the stadiums using natural grass and about one third using synthetic of some sort. And there's been you know, ever since it was invented astroturf was the big popular brand, ever since astroturf was was invented. There have been, you know, just stories and people saying that, you know, that sort of surface grips your foot a lot more. And so when you do a hard cutting maneuver or move to the side, your leg doesn't free up, and that wreaks havoc on your knees and ankles. And so, you know, the industry has tried to improve over time and come up with, you know, next generation products and, and I think they've done that somewhat. But it's still it's still an issue. And from time to time, there are studies that come out that say hey, look, there is there's definitely a higher, you know, rate of injury on synthetic turf, especially you know, either under certain conditions or if players are wearing a certain cleat pattern. These kinds of things. So, so that was the challenge. We were also given data on the environment. So was it raining? Was it cold? You know, that kind of thing? Was it an open stadium or closed stadium? We got, let's see, oh, we had movement data. So yeah, that was the big thing. So we also had the movement data where it's pretty cool that you know, the NFL puts a sensor now in every players shoulder pad, and what it does is it tracks their movement during the entire course of a play every play, and it takes those measurements about 10 times per second. So, you know, you can you can get this data they call it next gen stats. And yes, you can get this this NGS data and you can recreate a play and you can look at, you know, player movement. You can look at speed velocity, you can look at acceleration, either directional or linear. Get a lot of different things out of it. And, and from that, you know, you can start to estimate forces on the legs and all this good stuff. So we had all this data. And the NFL didn't ask specifically for any kind of change this year. They didn't ask for rules change or anything. They morally they more generally asked for insights, any ideas into what's going on? And then, you know, if you had some recommendations, you know, throw those out there. Of course, they like, you know, everyone likes to have a recommendation, hey, what, you know, what do we do with this? But I, but I think they're equally interested in the interest, the insight. So, that was that was the issue that we all looked at. And so, yeah, I approach that sort of the same way I did. I did a lot of upfront domain research this time, more so than I did last year. Just a lot of research to understand, like, what has been done in terms of, you know, research of synthetic to natural. What do players think, you know, can you find like player ratings? You know, what are some of the what are some of the economics of the whole thing, you know, that go into either putting synthetic or natural because that's, you know, there's a, there's a, there's two things probably that have driven that sort of, you know, the the likelihood of synthetic turf. One is just the ability to grow grass in some climates, in some places, it's hard. If you have a close stadium, you're not going to be able to grow grass and so some places like domes and that sort of thing. Which, which now they're actually doing that now. You know, just a an aside. The new stadium being built in Las Vegas is either closed roof or retractable, but they're having natural grass and so their field their field is built on a giant football field sized tray, and I guess it's about four feet thick. And after the games, they pulled this giant tray of grass out and they go put it in the sun to grow and they're in their growing area. Yeah. And then they put it back in for the game. So, yeah, I didn't, you know, I did all this research to try to understand talk to different people to figure out what's going on. And then, you know, did the analysis, I used, I use machine learning, supervised machine learning. And I aggregated the data up to the player level and and tried to see what was going on. And yeah, what I found was that synthetic turf does make a difference. It does appear to be a factor, and I can't say it does make a difference. What I can say is that for the sample provided, it did make a difference. And it appears to be an important factor, but in my opinion, not as important as other things like the acceleration, you know, the accelerator forces, sometimes the environment so if it was raining or snowing, that sort of thing or the days of rest that was probably the big thing that occurred was the days of rest between games. So, you know, if you have players that are playing over and over and getting a lot of hard work, and it's a tough game, they're going to get hurt, even if you play on the best surface available. I mean, it's, you know, yeah. So, so yeah, I presented that and I package that into my report and sent it in and was selected again, as a finalist and I got to go to Miami this year. I did not get Super Bowl tickets, but I got to go. But I got to go and have a good time in Miami and meet a lot of NFL folks and present my findings. So yeah, I think that I think the thing that they may have launched in or latched onto, is that part about the rest between games the player rest, you know, the NFL is also considering changing their schedule. Maybe more games, you know, they're considering hey, do we want more games in the regular season? We want to take some of the preseason games and make those regular season do we just want to have players play for an extra two weeks per year? You know, all sorts of options are on the table. And I think this data can help them, you know, provide some insight to say, you know, like, well, wait a minute, we have to watch the rest, because that may be an important factor also. So yeah, that was one thing. I guess the other thing I showed was that, you know, there's a huge difference between the number of games that different teams play on synthetic fields. You have teams, if you look back, just I mean, it's almost every year. But if you go back to 2018, which is I think the data we had, there's, you know, one team played one game out of 16 on synthetic, another team play. Yeah, and another team played 13. And, and you had everything in between. So you know, maybe there's something that you can do with the schedule and home games versus away games, and some The you know, some of the rules around that to sort of even that out a little bit to prevent a team from having to play 13 games on synthetic or what have you.

Sanyam Bhutani  45:09  
Interesting, I think this approach also really speaks to, so a new Kaggler might just look at the data and try fancy things. And you went ahead to the efforts of even looking outside and really understanding all of the publicly available ideas that you could gather that information and try to bring that into your solution.

John Miller  45:30  
Yes, yeah. And, you know, I've, when I first started Kaggler I read, you know, several, sort of how tos from the current, you know, Grand Master and Master population. And the advice that kept coming up and you'll still see is that don't just jump in and start machine learning. You know, it's very tempting to take your train set and run x g boost on it and see what comes out. And, and, you know, it's okay to do that. But really, you know, the advice that the they'll give and that I like is that, you know, just just wait, think about the problem, sort of look at the data, explore it, just kind of think about, you know, what might be important. And then take that approach. And then, you know, once you've considered the problem and done all your exploratory analysis, then start putting some models to it and see what you get.

Sanyam Bhutani  46:19  
Awesome. If, if you were to give one final best advice to someone who's just starting machine learning or Kaggle, what would that be?

John Miller  46:29  
Let's see, I would say, get engaged, like, get involved, not just with competitions, but with the community, ask questions in the discussion forums, put a notebook out there, even if you don't think it's very good. Ask people to give their opinion on it. I mean, just, you know, do that sort of thing. You'll learn from others and do that. It's really easy. And I think I was, you know, I was a little guilty of it too. You know, just kind of focus on on my learning and not even really asked questions just kind of do research. I didn't team up with others. You know, I, I waited a long time to publish my first notebook. And I would say, you know, if I had to do over again and what I would advise is just get out there and do it. And you'll be surprised. It's a great community. People are very helpful. And you know, it's a good thing.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:24  
Awesome. Before we end the call, what would be the best platforms to follow your work apart from obviously Kaggle?

John Miller  47:31  
Oh, let's see. I try to keep it I try to keep relevant with Twitter and just keep good information flowing through there. You know, when I come across things, so it could possibly follow me on Twitter. I've been a little bit boring lately. I'm gonna try to get back on that. That's probably that's probably the only one yeah, I mean, we have this podcast now. I haven't you know, I have some things on GitHub, but no big deal. Big deal. So yeah, probably Kaggle is where I where I contribute the most to the community, I think.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:04  
Okay, audience please do remember to check out the show notes if you're interested. John, thank you so much for joining me on the podcast and thank you so much for all of your contributions to data science and the NFL world so to speak.

John Miller  48:17  
Thanks, Sanyam, and best to you also.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:26  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review, or feel free to shoot me a message you can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science."

