Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:45  
Hello, and welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I interview my colleague Parul Pandey, data evangelist at h2o.ai and we talk all about what her role as a data evangelist means and her work at h2o. I've been a fan of her blog posts. And I asked her all about her secrets to blogging on this episode along with all of the amazing things that she's been contributing to including meetups evangelizing, or sharing amazing things on LinkedIn and Twitter. We discuss all about her journey into the field. Her advices to future aspirants. And we talked about a very important theme that I am I'm guilty of not discussing as much on this episode. I recognize that not a large number of my guests are women, Parul is a great contributor to the women in Data Science community, and we also discuss about that and how can others who recognize the community contribute towards it? Personally, I've learned a lot from Parul's work and I'm really excited to be sharing it with you. I hope you enjoy the interview as much as i did, without further ado, with a quick reminder to the non native English speakers, please remember to enable the subtitles on YouTube, the subtitles, having checked manually and be uploaded to help your watching experience. And with that, here's my interview with Parul Pandey. Please enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:32  
Hi, everyone. I am really excited to be talking to my colleague and a great content creator from h2o.ai today. Parul thank you so much for joining me on the podcast.

Parul Pandey  2:43  
It's an absolute pleasure to be on your podcast and thanks a lot for having me.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:48  
I've learned a lot through your blog post reading them or even pinging you every day, asking for advice so I'm really excited to be talking to you. I want to start by talking about your background you studied electrical engineering and after that you started working the analytics sector. Where did science, or did you always have a passion for data science? I guess it wasn't called data science back in the day. When did that come into the picture for you?

Parul Pandey  3:11  
Yeah. So so I'm an electrical engineer. And after I completed my graduation, I started working for a power distribution company. So that's called data power. And so these are one of the score electrical companies where you will actually put all your concepts of voltage carrying everything that so but I was not in that. So I was in the analytics department. Our work was actually to work on the data that was being collected. And so that kind of is pretty similar to what people are doing today also. And but yes, as you said, it wasn't called Data Science analysts and used to get this whole set of data and you know, the study data, and then you had actually I knew that I use and it'll be kind of predict how much the load will go in after two years or three years and make we've got to prepare it that way. So they should not be loading shed offs. And so because these departments, so I was looking for a public utility, and they kind of come under lot of scrutiny from the government, because, you know, it's directly it has a lot of gamification. So, in summers, your electricity shouldn't be going out. And you have this constant pressure from the government also. And if the elections are coming, the scenario is really, really bad. So I got to actually work in a very realistic kind of an environment. And so data was always a part of my life. And it just has continued. I'm not at that company, but the lot of basics and I've learned there I'm just still using them.

Sanyam Bhutani  4:53  
You're already doing model prediction before it was.

Parul Pandey  4:57  
It just  that the tool were different. Some of them were their own propriety to then some of the tools. So I guess I wanted to do was have our different now, skill set, probably it's actually the same and it's just that maybe I've learned even more things, but a lot of people always ask me, so you've switched from electrical to data science tell us also how much time it took six months, one year, and then I say it didn't start that day. So it's not like I it was always I was always connected to data. So for me, it's not something different. But a lot of people think, you know, if I switch from electrical to data science, so just give us a window, maybe six months was enough. But that's a very weird question that I get asked him most of the time.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:38  
I think, and like you said, it's also constant process, you evolve into this feeling it's not a direct transition, you don't click a switch and you become a data scientist. It It takes time. It takes a lot of skills, a lot of things to learn.

Parul Pandey  5:52  
Yeah, a lot of hard work also and then constantly working on a problem you might not find the solution at once and then you have to keep working. If look for solutions for my top two people searching forums it's a complete process I think and only if you're ready to devote such a lot of time and energy and only then you should have ventured out in the future not like it's not something that you do a degree or a course or a certification and you'll instantly you know, like switching to data science like;

Sanyam Bhutani  6:25  
You don't like become a doctor in a day.

Parul Pandey  6:27  
Everything you know, you're becoming a doctor you know, years and years of practice, you just can't go and operate on a body. So it's the same thing with this field also, you are to like maths so if you literally hate maths and stats and the computer than coding, so then I don't think it's even worth for you to invest such a lot of energy into this.

Sanyam Bhutani  6:49  
Okay. Now, you mentioned you get asked all of these questions where the community, were you always involved with the community since college when did that passion spark for you?

Parul Pandey  7:00  
I was very active in my school and college life, a very, very active is to take part in a lot of we had a lot of clubs, technical clubs and all that kind of actually vanished when I started my job because I got so pulled into it. And then my, it used to revolve around that. And then as I told you, things are pretty different. what it is today, so because of the internet and everything, and you have a lot of meetups concept that is come today, it wasn't so that time. There were no concept of meetups or clubs and things like that, too, even if I want to share my knowledge and all I know most of the people who are on Facebook that time and even before so today, you see people actually make use of Facebook also, to actually tell this is there's this new meetup coming up and this is you know, this is this material. So that would that has been a lot of shift. So but then also I actually got so much involved in my work life and is trying to maintain a balance so I was actually out of it but I always liked it. So now when I'm sneaking the full use of it.

Sanyam Bhutani  8:15  
Okay. And I think not to speak negatively but the internet boom so to speak happened in India just recently when Jio service provider came along and cut down the prices? 

Parul Pandey  8:24  
Yes.

Sanyam Bhutani  8:25  
It was, even though I just looked up meetup was founded in 2002, 2002.

Parul Pandey  8:32  
So we so when we started within the internet so you I'm from the generation that you started from the dial up connection, and then you know, this node speed where you had data packs and stuff like that. So today we're coming to be with the downloading generation, okay, you should download yours is to download data by itself, you know, like episodes of friends and all and today, we've gone into streaming now. We stream everything from songs to videos to like Netflix and Amazon Prime. So have you seen that shift going, and that has actually helped in a lot of things. So we can have that we have access to online courses, we can actually do them. And so that's a very positive thing. And if we use it in a very correct manner, I can then it is actually very helpful for people who are in college right now. 

Sanyam Bhutani  9:26  
Yeah, and if they don't get distracted, for sure, and the technology also helps get it right like me, too. If you join the group, you use either meetups. If you're in a region, the meetup app will show you notifications. And if you just put in your interests of data science and whatnot, you can take the transition slowly over a few years by just going to the meetups and meeting people like you hopefully in Hyderabad or if you do it in another city.

Parul Pandey  9:52  
Yes. So I tell a lot of people, so when we come for meetups, one of the important takeaway from meetups should be networking. So you just cannot study everything in that one on meetup or to our meetup. Obviously, you'll have to just go back and study. But what you can create this networks, you can create networks, you can build up a team and participate in hackathons and competitions. So that shouldn't be the emphasis of meetups and all go create your network because that really helps in such for us. Unfortunately, some people the thing meetups are only meant you know, like, you should tell them everything and you should give them all the materials and that is it. So that is not the main maybe the the idea of meetup is not it's just meeting place where people with same I, the other ideologies that come together and then so for me, it happened. I went to meet up I thought, so when I met some few other women, and then we founded women emelius group. So for us, it was just that I did not know those people before that and I met them in a meet up and then we started we thought, let's just have a group. Let's just start in that way it happened. So this is something that I always tell.

Sanyam Bhutani  11:02  
I think I have had Ines Montani on the show. And that's literally how Spacy was created. They made at a, not even a networking event them. She and her co founder met somewhere, they talked to each other, they really liked their interests. And it led to the creation of Spacy and all other things that they are doing. And if you not only go with the mindset that you actually want to achieve anything, but if you go with an open mindset to meet up, I think, I think that's one good approach any other things that you think are great when you meet a good mindset should one go with?

Sanyam Bhutani  11:35  
Yeah, so firstly, firstly, you should be like open to what people are going to present and should not be very critical, you know, even if you know something, and you're in a meet up. So there's a person who's kind of, you know, presenting it, it's really hard to public speaking is actually hard. And even if you are a very experienced person, you still have those butterflies okay when you have to speak in front of people. So you should firstly encourage those people and that they've come out they've taken time to prepare this material for you and that actually speaking, and then you should always you should be able to get some feedback some constructive feedback, don't just try to tell the person you know like, oh god, I just wasting my time coming here that this for you to decide actually and then you should also your aim should meet so after 20 few meetups, you should also volunteer to actually give presentations and all these are great forums actually to develop your interpersonal skills and communication skills, which are also essential part to become a data scientist to you know, you should be able to express what is your predictions why what was your hypothesis by your thinking this is going to be important that is going to be important. So these are good way so you might not get the chance in your company. Not always okay, and you might not even get the chance when you're in your college or something. So make use of these platforms that have been made available. And it's just free people are just asking you to come and network and have beads and go. So just be open and just see what suits you. Now I see a lot of people, they make it a point to go to every meetup. So that is also not required. Just make sure how much you can take you what is your interest. So maybe there's a person is just a beginner and he's going to every deep learning meet up and have you know, high level meetups, so you should search for meetups which are which suits him beginners kind maybe. So that then the real sense of all these, you know, they can be actually kind of measure. Otherwise it will be just going for the sake of fate and you're wasting it two or three hours on a weekend on that.

Sanyam Bhutani  13:43  
I think and that's one of the hacks around networking also if you go and speak, at the end people will come to you by default if you want to just reach people.

Parul Pandey  13:53  
Yeah, exactly. Because people really respect it is I respect people who go on the stage and speak you know, because I know it requires a lot of courage, it takes a lot of time to get used to the fact that you know, all the eyes are looking at you. So you should always go out and speak and try to speak and then just get out of this fear because a lot of people are very talented, but unfortunately, they cannot just express themselves or when they go on the stage, they get nervous. So this is what they should use. Go to the meetup, see how people speak and then maybe you can take some points, what are the good points and bad points and make some volunteers like, okay, I like to present something on this. Not only that makes your concept clear, because I seen a lot of answers. You have a lot of questions get answered when you're speaking over there, you know, then you just say, Oh, my God, I just answered and I had this doubt in my mind for so long. And then try and one try, then start with some few little conferences, then go to some national level conference, and that's where you should really I mean, the path.

Sanyam Bhutani  14:57  
And again, like, like I mentioned, growing up the to the levels even if you prepare for a local meetup prepare as if you're speaking at the best conference don't discriminate. And that's that's the best way to go about learning I in my opinion.

Parul Pandey  15:12  
Yes. So you just have to put in a proposal and and if it's good one and if you feel you are worth it, you'll get a chance I've seen so many first time speakers are in some conferences, and it's just great. It's also great because this also gives a lot of freshness to the conference and stressing the same face again and again every year.

Sanyam Bhutani  15:34  
And secondly, you mentioned that it's also about being able to express these things and people feel like it's only for the business facing roles. I don't think that's true. Even speaking of something internally, we have a lot of things that is true. And even if someone is working on us, let's say a stock and another person still. They don't usually speak the same language. They might be working on different frameworks and you need to be able to communicate that internally as well, not just to the people.

Parul Pandey  16:04  
You see funny things are good things to your managers, sometimes. And this is a skill that is required in every phase of your life, actually, you might require it. And then different teams have to convince different teams, you have to sometimes ask for help from other teams you are facing anhy problem, and what kind of help you want. So all these things, I think these are just the data scientist and I think every role in industry today is dependent on a lot of other people. You cannot work in tilos today. And so that expression being able to express things is it's very, very, I think, vital.

Sanyam Bhutani  16:44  
Very true. Now coming to another aspect where you're spreading awareness about everything data. How did this switch for evangelism start for you did again that have passion, trailing back to your earlier days? How was that how did that switch happened?

Parul Pandey  17:00  
Yeah, so I think that was pretty natural, because since I was writing, and I was pretty active on LinkedIn roles, so so I actually did not think that I would go into a role. I was like doing what I was doing, and writing and everything, but then needs to happen. And I just felt that you know, that kind of role was just created for me. So it just everything just fell in place because I feel very nice when I tell people about the product about h2o.ai's product whether it's h2o-3 or driverless AI. And I guess at the bridge between my company and the people so so a lot of meetups which I conduct and when I tell them, we tell these people how to use it. And so that is kind of cool idea. So because so for evangelist, there's one main important thing that has to be there is the person should actually believe in the products. 

Sanyam Bhutani  17:56  
Yeah.

Parul Pandey  17:56  
So it's like a lot of people they feel okay, could you just about our product, could you write about this product that doesn't happen. Actually, you know, you should believe in product, you should believe in the P for creating the product. And this actually happened with h2o. So with a lot of learning, and I see how people work on things, how people work on platforms and all the thought process. And so now, then I went into the company, and so everything happening. So then I feel Oh my god, yes, this is just it all for me. And so now I kind of spread the spread the old information about each tools, resources and products to be blank tried them to actually come and try them, use them and get the feedbacks on them. So it was pretty natural because I was writing about a whole lot of things and data science. And now, this is another thing that has added to that even though I still write on data science concepts also. And this is additionally that I'm doing now.

Sanyam Bhutani  18:59  
And I I think this again traces back to your advice of you were actually passionate about the field, you weren't looking to become a data scientist, you weren't looking for this role. You were just doing it out of passion. And then you made the switch to estou, where you still continuing to do it. So it's it's not just seeking this role.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:17  
So it's like, so now it is like, like, you know, a lot of people will say, this is a cliche statement, but it's just like if you, if you love what you're doing that you will not have to work. So it's happened with me, and I, that is what I advise people also, I said, whatever you do, start with a lot of passion and commitment, and hard work while sending things will come to you. So a lot of people they are they want, we want a job. You want a job as a data scientist, you want a job, you want to get out of a current role. There's no mantra for it actually. So you have to project yourself outside. You know, you have to get in touch with good people. You have to project yourself what are what are your strengths you have to put forward because this is what happened however the person know somewhere that you exist. So, so that is you have to do something special you have to do. So if you like writing do that if you like making YouTube videos, you can do that. Strengthen your GitHub profile, participate in hackathons, Kaggle. I mean, all these things, they're all free. They're providing unique so a lot of people ask me, we want a data set. Where can we find data sets. Now, if you're not about kaggle, I know where you are headed to it. So so people, a lot of people are scared of taking part in competitions, on Kaggle, they say, you know, we're not decisive, don't go for competitions, then start, see a competition you have the data, create some notebook, see what others are doing and see why they're doing this. So you have to decide what you want to do just becoming a data scientist. That's not something so why people want to become data scientists because they want to get away from the existing Would that have been in their troubles for quite some time? They just want to switch. And they take my example. They say she was an electrical engineer, she took a break for two, three years. Now she's in h2o. So what how did this happen, then? This is something very rarely when I can't answer that what people see is what is written on my LinkedIn profile. But what I always say is to create content to write. It's not about so so a article may take some 10 minutes today, but sometimes it's a work of 10 years behind that. And this starts from your background, like your schools and your colleges and all these things. So I always tell them that whatever you're trying to say, try adding on that. You know, if you've been working for 10 years in a company, try to use data science in that context. Try to use you good experience don't just want to switch off and then trying for a freshers job that would not get you anywhere.

Sanyam Bhutani  21:58  
Yeah, again it's about the people who and it since data science is booming people look at it, but if you look at any job, it is difficult it's not that easy. You need to learn a lot you need to learn the concepts you need to study everything. It's not just data science, you can switch into literally any job in three months leave data science alone,

Parul Pandey  22:17  
Yeah. So, if you want to become a doctor today, I cannot become a doctor today. It is something similar to and the best part of data science is just the art of like using the time to come to conclusions and the fairly non existing data starts by missing data sets and start seeing how you can apply. So how you can use data to to bring out something good and data is everywhere today. So don't think that I have to go to some specific AI based company or a start up don't see that way. Start using it in your current company. Try talking to your management see if there is some similar to will they try switching into that role first, because domain experience as we also known as driverless AI today is used by a lot of different companies. And we also know domain knowledge is so important in that, and these guys have domain knowledge. They've been working in this company for seven, eight years, so they should try to cash on it.

Sanyam Bhutani  23:15  
Yeah. Now you describe a lot of things. And the title data evangelists now is more even more confusing. I feel like for the audience, can you please make it a more defined term? What does a day in your life look like? What does I know? They vary a lot internally. I know that but what do you work on during a typical week?

Parul Pandey  23:38  
So the best part of being a data evangelist is you can decide your entire thing yourself. And it's just you have to find ways how you can just make people aware of the product if you are evangelizing the product and you can evangelize on with anything. So I contribute. So the best part of working at h2o is you can There's no limit to if you want to work in different specific domains, you can do that. But if you want to learn something others, everybody's helpful and everybody's open to it. So initially, when I was I came to h2o, I used to write on specific related products and use cases which are due to the old data set, then I run it through dramaalert and see how I use driverless AI for different aspects. To find instance, how you can use driverless car for sentiment analysis or recommender systems. And then I can work them in blogs so that you know it's there on the site for people to see. Apart from that, you can do almost anything for instance, I also contributed a recipe. So when we came with the custom recipe module, so apart from that, we also organize meetups and then we people come and we give them a hands on session. How to do that. I also like tutorials for the specific use cases. So if there are companies or anybody who wants to use driverless AI, so there are some great set of tutorials. So to contribute to that, apart from that also, I can almost going to anything if I want, nobody says no. So it's like you have to mix experiencing everything new that is here. And plus Kaggle also you can continue. So I think it's so much over there for you. You just have to manage your time and, and it's not something like it's fixed here. You can do evangelism, you could also work on the product, you could work with the engineering team, you could go to the marketing team. So as evangelists we kind of act as a bridge between the product and the people and try to make it as accessible as possible.

Sanyam Bhutani  25:59  
I think that's that also part of the makers gonna make the maker the maker philosophy and it might not resonate with a lot of other people at other companies for sure.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:08  
Because I guess most of people have the fix roles and they kind of put like boundaries around you like if you are in this role, you cannot go to this role, but in h2o, I think everybody's doing almost anything. And they also do some marketing the product and working with the clients on the engineering team. So it's kind of a great learning process.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:30  
And I can only say that everyone around is this smart and very, very knowledgeable, best of the best, absolute best.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:38  
It's a great opportunity for me to actually learn and grow and you know how people work. And that's also so that is, so I have my role but this is kind of a bonus that I get.

Sanyam Bhutani  26:53  
You get to definitely resonate with that. You get to follow your passion. You get to learn and it's a job that you do. Surprisingly, very being both of;

Parul Pandey  27:01  
So I wasn't actually. So to be honest, I was, I was very happy I was working when I was working on my own. So I used to write for some publications like KDNuggets I wrote for data camp also, and some other international publications, and I was pretty happy. But when h2o happened, it's just that their whole just resonated with me. And so I still feel maybe I wouldn't be working if it wasn't for h2o. Because the kind of suffered a person like me who wants to write and explore things, you require some level of freedom. And otherwise, those ideas, they don't come up and if somebody tells me write this way, you should include this also, and you know, interesting, I cannot write that. I need that sense of freedom to actually express my ideas and so forth. I have a few options to work and so h2o just like by chance is just, you know, into the specific thing that happened. And it's going to be like eight months now. And it's been a wonderful experience.

Sanyam Bhutani  28:11  
I definitely resonate with your experience there. And I've been a huge fan of your blogs. I'd be curious to know, what's a pipeline for you because it's like you said it's a nonlinear it and you spend a lot of time reading about something and people might look at it 350 word blog. Many people do that. But it might have taken a long time and the ability to condense it into a blog, not over market it and yet keep it readable enough, is a big challenge in itself.

Parul Pandey  28:41  
It is, actually you know, the fact that some of the people they simply judge your world by just seeing those 350 words or 500 sometime very disheartening. A lot of people they approach you to do ghostwriting, so initially when I was writing, and I used to feel really bad you know like so people that you know what we'll pay you but you used to write with a name. So I had said, obviously, I did not do this. But the thing that makes you sad is okay, I did not I was in a situation that maybe I just didn't need that job. But there are some very talented people who actually write for others. And so writers should be given respect. And, and I think, research Oh my god, research takes such a long time. And then you would also think that what I'm presenting should be a little new. So the lot of things to keep in mind. So initially, always feel more and more people should follow you, because that is kind of motivating. But then you also have to keep in mind that the thing that you produce the write up or something should also have some value. So it shouldn't be some clickbait articles, you know, just to so I see a lot of articles they have this interesting headlines and when you read them, it's nothing It has to be a balance between them you have to and then you also have to see which are what does your audience. So for me, I knew a lot of beginners were there who used to follow my blog. And what they said these people are, they get really confused when they see a lot of articles on the internet. And they just want one article which can actually give them you know, they don't have to go to a lot of articles because it takes time. So I saw them that, you know, they were coming again and again to my blog and reading them. So then I thought because this is my target audience, more helps me to want to learn because I learn and then I write and then maybe other people also read it and they also learn and then they also start writing. So and then, yes, claps and use matter, but then I don't go much into it because then you start losing, you know, because you start writing for others, because what are those like? And I always wanted to write what I want to write because I guess I started writing. So I don't go much into it because seeing if I'm getting a good, because any article, sometimes it happens. One article that goes viral is the one in which you put the least amount of effort. And in the one, you thought this is going to be great, it didn't get such a good response. So I also left it, like you said, because I take feedback from people, but then I try to put in what I feel will be good.

Sanyam Bhutani  31:21  
Also, when when you are broadcasting to I know you're broadcasting to millions of people, but someone who's broadcasting to thousands, the feedback is is very less. It's literally 10s of hundreds of people that bother to write back to you even though you could really use our feedback.

Sanyam Bhutani  31:38  
Yeah, because it does happen. It's all about the followers. It takes time for the followership to build up actually but before that also you have to you have to take so what you think should be the best and what is the thing that you can put your expertise into? Because I used to get a lot of requests. You might want to write on this. Why don't you write on this. So I said I cannot write on this I don't have expertise. Why should I venture into something which I'm not confident about. So you can say it's a suggestion but you should go and there's no need to reinvent the wheel. There are some good blog posts already there. I used to point them to those people. So I said you should go ahead and read those away. Should I do the same thing again and again, and also I think, the right person to write on that topic, but what I'm writing I am confident about it if you've got questions about this, you can ask me so I maintained that you do get mix and match okay, you get negative also, but then that I can buy chill off this job for so but this has helped me to take criticism also, earlier initial during my initial months, I should really get very sad with the negative comments. I need to keep thinking about them. But then slowly and gradually, I kind of you know, started overcoming it. If I failed, this generally made some sense I would take it in otherwise there were people there's some people who always negative and you can't help that. So you can like, kind of let that affect your psychology. So then kind of now I think so that thing also actually also helped me, like become maybe a stronger person, because otherwise I was a very as opposed to a student take, you know, get anxious and people is to post commands and bad things. And now I think I started overcoming that. 

Sanyam Bhutani  33:27  
Awesome. What does I know? So there's there's no direct target that you need to complete. But let's say you get excited about a topic and you decide to write about it. What does the pipeline look like you how do you go about it?

Sanyam Bhutani  33:42  
So, so what I initially usually do is I'll be seeing some so maybe in the Slack channel, I see that a lot of talk going about, about this new release or this new recipe or thing. So then I contact the person who was actually involved with it. And they said, they'll be interested to actually, you know, work. I have a few minutes with them. And then I make a plan under there for them. We should write on this. So there's this recommendation systems recipe was coming up. And that was being done by Robin. And so I just read it somewhere. And then I contacted him, I said, will you be interested to work on this? And he said, Yes, definitely. And so that then we work together. And then we also the article sent to some other people also like so I can mark to give that feedback. And then when we think okay, this is perfect, and they usually said, so that is what I do, that I find this pipeline, I feel that you know, to be worth writing on it and then I put the person on the team that's working on it.

Sanyam Bhutani  34:48  
Awesome. Now there's another aspect to it also, you put in a lot of effort, how how to market to blogs, to the audience, how to make sure that it gets to the right audience and I know the numbers aren't very important to you. But it also needs to get across, how do you not over market them yet, ensure that it gets across?

Sanyam Bhutani  35:08  
So this is the philosophy that I've always followed on LinkedIn. So never I post so initially, I used to use LinkedIn to post so whenever I should write an article on medium, the nice to post it on medium on LinkedIn also, but I always try to see this is this article and it deals with this I'd never write like this, you know, oh, my God, and bring me out and make my article my article. So I always stayed away from that. And fortunately, now I have such a fun going on LinkedIn. Then I don't need to over market that way. Because now people they feel that way when I post it. It does make sense. So gradually over such a long time, I haven't used it. But initially, honestly, I should just write my article is right look I find sincerity to learn sentiment analysis I would write has written an article on sentiment analysis and it ends with this and then they should read it themselves so never made a point to you know actually kind of go over the top with this like this is the only article and this is the best article that you should read. So it's just simply writes and written this article and and people did started going this to read the article and hence my LinkedIn thing started increasing when people said okay, we don't have article we found a good and but yes, I never over market stuff because personally I don't like it. They also don't like the people who do it. Because things to be left open to people and it is for them to actually decide to do if they feel that if you are writing it, whether it is worth it or not. And then maybe it takes time. So my limited fellowship has gone to the next level that it does get few eyeballs, maybe decent enough. So that is something that I've achieved over the time. So now that is helping.

Sanyam Bhutani  37:05  
I think that also speaks to the true authorship and the power of the internet, if if you are really putting out good content, the internet rewards you exponentially, maybe with a little thing.

Sanyam Bhutani  37:19  
It does it, actually. And then I also so it was not that I only posted only my stuff, if I found some other blog posts also good. I also go and post about post type stuff. Because I think it's about you should like, encourage other people also that I think good things and if people don't know about them then to let other people know. So it's not only me, and you know, I'm the only one I should only write about myself, so that should not be the case. I mentioned about other blogs and some other cool stuff. And there are people then they kind of this so you know, thank you for doing tonight because they're not so most of them are not ending today. No, it's it's so then they've joined LinkedIn and they say so it's a good platform and you like introduced us to this also, we've missing out on this audience. So then you feel very happy you know, they you've also contributed some lead in somebody's other's journey because there have been a lot of people who have supported me also. So I really feel happy if I can actually do something for others also now.

Sanyam Bhutani  38:26  
I'm sorry, I don't have a real award but please accept a virtual "Chai Time Data Science" award for your achievement. LinkedIn named you as one of the top voices on it. Did you expect it? Do you have an acceptance speech?

Sanyam Bhutani  38:42  
It's like like now you must have a says from what I've been talking. Everything just went to so I was just working but I did did put in a lot of hard work for everything that I did. I kind of invented myself from scratch. So you know, I had to actually do something even though I used to write, I never put out my work in public, because I always felt was good to read my work because they already encouraged people who are writing, but I was wrong. And this is what I tell everybody that you should not think like that. And then just happened. And maybe I was posting people connected people liked it, and maybe they noticed it. And it just came along the way. And then I got this message from them like, so kind of, "we've chosen you", and it was great. So it obviously selling to them is an international platform. And you really feel great when you are recognized by by anybody, even if it's 10 Indians from International, even a local platform. Do you feel okay, so you what you're doing people are noticing it. But even if this one time happened, I would still continue over time. I wouldn't still share stuff, same stuff. 

Sanyam Bhutani  39:50  
Yeah. 

Parul Pandey  39:51  
So I saw a lot of people they wrote after the list came out that you know, I did not get top voice this time. So this means they were actually doing it for top voice. 

Sanyam Bhutani  40:02  
Exactly. 

Parul Pandey  40:04  
It just defeats the whole purpose.

Sanyam Bhutani  40:07  
It's, it's, again, back back to the topic that we're talking about to passion. And recognition does maybe make you work even harder towards it. But you don't really need it for being true to your passion like like, like you just said.

Sanyam Bhutani  40:25  
Your self motivation, and your motivation where people around you i think is the best. It's I think enough and that should be something enough for you to actually get working. And if you're really passionate about something, then you will do it. You are sick, you'll do it. You'll get up in the morning you'll do late at night. You don't require that you know, you need that push to do it. You'll do it yourself. And as you are doing your interviews.

Sanyam Bhutani  40:57  
My secret is Chai. Give me an cup of chai. I'm good. I don't need sleep.

Parul Pandey  41:02  
Yeah. Okay.

Sanyam Bhutani  41:05  
But I think it also speaks about h2o's culture where everyone is very warm and very respectful of the work you're doing. And to an extent, they could just give you a thumbs up emoji. And that said, but they maybe go ahead and really, really appreciate the work that you're doing. And I think that also is a factor that makes you work harder.

Sanyam Bhutani  41:28  
A lot I think I still remember and so when so when I joined the company, twenty first of July and when my meal went out, so it's hard to send the meal so like it's customary here that everybody so person doesn't;

Sanyam Bhutani  41:44  
We become a new member by introducing me to the entire team.

Parul Pandey  41:47  
Yeah. So I think that have about like 11 here in Indian time and I slept after that I got up in the morning and I checked so my email wasn't checked by that time and in the morning in a second everything I saw, people. So many people, you know the thing, welcome to h2o, and then few of them who didn't like me, we follow on LinkedIn or we read your blog. And if it's so nice, I said, so this is not even like my first day and there are people who end this reconnect so nicely in such a nice welcome. I really felt very happy. Maybe I've nevr told this to anybody. But that was something you know that your first day. And even if I'm sitting here and the people are sitting all over the world, and they took our time to actually write and welcome people, that was something which I really found it I think over the top maybe and and then there have been such instances which have been happening, people are very encouraging. You write some and they never say no I think it's a very great culture here. And so yesterday, that's what I was saying. There being A lot of things about how you make your culture very warm for people and your employees. And then I just said, like, you don't have to show it, you know, it's kind of inherent, it's in the DNA of a company. 

Sanyam Bhutani  43:12  
Yep. 

Parul Pandey  43:13  
So you just can't have a kind of have a kind of outdoor activity for your employees on one day and friendly, and then you get back to the team. Then you same come on, I want this work by tomorrow morning. So it's something that's inherent in the company, it's in that culture so I can make this culture it's and then you don't need to do all these things. That you know, our company's taking us to the strip and this and that in that even in a normal day to day work. such thing can be seen easily. And I think it's pretty evident here in h2o.ai.

Sanyam Bhutani  43:53  
And I think lingering onto that is to also let you to go out side of your word to continue To the community as to really recognizes that you're a huge advocate of women in Data Science, even though it's not related to our products at all, so to speak, but h2o does recognize your efforts there and I think it definitely needs that recognition. Could you tell us more about your contributions there, what roles are you working on for women in Data Science.

Sanyam Bhutani  44:22  
So, I always have been kind of an advocate for more participation of females, my more emphasis is is there should be more like participation because if the females are not willing to participate, I mean, like their voices won't be heard. And so I was just looking for a way in which I could like contribute. But then there are a lot of clubs which already established, okay, and they more or less, kind of they, they work they like gender agnostic. So this is the we are open to both agendas and we just cannot like kind of, you know, divide On that basis, but my idea was a little different. And then I just saw that Erin-Erin, and I have a local chapter here. And and then I thought it's a great opportunity maybe I could start with and I thought maybe I'll be able to take it along. And but I think so when I read about women meds and the kind of work these people were doing all over the world, it just kind of resonated with me. And then yes, in October, we launched the chapters, I was the only person there when I launched it. But then people started, I think, and now we have this substantial group here. And we've already organized three or four meetups and you just got to organize the next one on 29th. 

Sanyam Bhutani  45:41  
Okay

Parul Pandey  45:41  
It's great. We have only female speakers. And we get speakers internationally also, they connect to us. And it's trying to, it's becoming a great event where people young females when they come here, not only they learn, but we also encourage them to give presentations and learn things salary negotiations and stuff like this apart from your normal data science routine, and maybe re skilling and stuff like that. And we're also trying to partner with some government agency. So they're like they've even provided us they'll be providing space for kids also. So there are women who want to come from meetups, but they have kids home. And so a lot of women to leave out on a lot of meetups and social events, because there's nobody to take care of the kids. So we're trying to kind of arrange things that we can also get the kids and the kids will be playing and they'll attend the meetup. So we are targeting in that direction. It just not has to be only data science and ml, it has to be kind of a holistic approach and helping that development and networking and also data science and machine learning. Maybe they can get together right some research, do some research papers, and then we also want to collaborate with other companies and we are working on and I could only do this because I came here in h2o and I saw how Erin was working, so Erin actually the founder of two groups. So Rladies and WiDS and she's doing a wonderful role. And then WiMLDS Paris chapter is oh my god it's so very active and they get to work with such great people and they organize the sprints for like cycling sprints and all so we are also maybe we want to make education India the most active chapter. So that's what are my plans for the future?

Sanyam Bhutani  47:40  
And like you said, it's many people miss out on the fact that community efforts even though we do it for you, you need money and you need some some propeller behind it. And I think as to at least, as a company really recognizes that fact. And I believe that's also he's contributed to.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:56  
Yeah, so the first thing that when when I actually found it this group and I went on to the slack. So the first thing that everybody told me was, if you ever require any help, so marketing team came to me, they said, if you require help, just back to the space or any other thing, please feel free to tell us, we'll be more than happy to do that. So that's the first thing since you're failing, oh my god, this is not related to our work at all.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:20  
Hehe.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:20  
This is something that they told us just just tell us if you buy health, and it was so so welcoming, and so great, and you actually feel that you know, people really feel about groups like WiMLDS and women's participation, it's just not for only you know, like some of the companies just to show otherwise it doesn't actually happen. And so that, that is what so I want the females to be actually you know, they don't have to compromise on like their jobs and all if they're not happy with some job. They just keep doing it, you know, for the sake of this in local views, but you have like five to six years in this company. It'll be difficult to switch. So I want them, they can rescale themselves and then maybe they could work from home also where, you know, they could back balance everything. So that is our all purpose.

Sanyam Bhutani  49:11  
Okay, and I know we talked about this offline, but where are we missing? How can we help towards this community? I know on my podcast and this will be talked about I have less than one sixth women. Are you serious? And I know it's it's a drawback also something that I'm conscious about, but many people might not even be conscious, but for those who want to make an effort, have any any best advice is there?

Sanyam Bhutani  49:41  
Um, I think what we're really missing out is kind of, yeah, we don't have much role models, female role models and it does make a difference because when we see so for me, like as a goal you concerned about Erin and then Ingrid, Ingrid is the Chief Marketing Officer at h2o, you look at this women, and you know, you really feel, you know, like you want to be or you can learn so much from them within this field, I think. And that's partly because of the participation factor also. So there's this Kaggle survey that happened last year. And there was this data, and the size of the data was like, so I think it's just a big 16% of females who participated in the survey. Now with that 16% data, you can actually, you know, the data itself is, so you even have to be more participate, it will have to come out and you don't have to so this is this happens in casual will. So, even if you want to form teams, you don't have many females there who are ready to form teams. And so this is this hurts for others who actually want to do something and that is why I think but a lot of groups have come out for this reason on me that I think it is high time now we have to start focusing on this. And it's not something that females are going to get a new advantage of the thing. It's just if you're trying to help them come in the mainstream. And there may be great females who actually but we don't know where they are. So a lot of problem happened. Let me search for scout for speakers. And we have such a hard time in finding female speakers and every time I'm the one who's actually speaking at every event in the city, so we want more females come we want different ideas to come. And this will start with things like maybe getting more role models into center stage, and then maybe mentorship from them and learning from their journey. How did they make it possible? And how is it even possible for others to do it? Because I think getting married having kids is should not deter anybody from following their dreams. And also we have to look towards how the family will support them. Because a lot of support is also required from families. So it's kind of has to be collaborative effort. And it definitely, it won't change in a day or two. By the things that are happening. There might be at least even if there's a delta change, I think that is worth it. And maybe next Kaggle survey, we see some bigger maybe data, if not 50-50, at least, or maybe 70-30.

Sanyam Bhutani  52:36  
Hopefully, I know you wouldn't mention it but you created an awesome kernel, Kaggle kernel around it. I'll have it in the show notes for the audience that want to check it out. Please don't be lazy, scroll down and find it in the show notes.

Parul Pandey  52:48  
Oh, yeah. I think I was actually looking for data, you know, because just to back, my whatever I say I wanted data and then the Kaggle thing came out and it was just At the right time they came. And the first thing that went in the mind was I have to just analyze the subgroup and I have to analyze how other females theory so that I can actually present it. So I converted into a blog post also that people the situation right now, even though Kaggle would not reflect the entire data science community, but it kind of gives a hint actually.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:26  
Yep. Now, this has been a into full of maybe amazing directions. But if you were to give one best advice to someone who's just starting the journey, would would that be?

Sanyam Bhutani  53:40  
so my advice would definitely be Firstly, think why you would want to become kind of data scientist because you could even become a software engineer, you could, there are lot of people who could become a data engineer. So, first you have to decide so if you really if you really like going deep into data You like collecting data and you really like you know, coming up with like, great ideas, then it's good. And then make sure you have a solid background and foundation. I especially say stats and coding don't run away from coding. And coding is such an essential tool kit even even if you're not a data scientist, I still feel because see the best part of computer science which I can easily say no. So, so I've been in electrical engineering the largest to consistent such big machines. And you act synchronous notice and this and I know the whole infrastructure, it could only be afforded by a school or a college. But for computer science, a lab is your computer, you can take that any way anybody can do it. No age is required for that. And I think you should really, really focus on coding and you should because if you're good at coding data science also becomes easier. And a lot of things then you'll also realize maybe you want to create a And you will do a lot of things. Unfortunately, a lot of as we eat to get it out without working on coding. So this according to me, it's not the right thought maybe have a solid good and see coding is even, you have such a lot of resources, you don't have to get enrolled into a program or something, a lot of boot camps out there, and just make your coding really solid. And also do not think you know, just kind of diving into coding is very helpful in all walks of life, I think. And if you're going to work on your coding stuff, this can be really helpful in your longer journey. So like, don't run away from coding. Don't run away from math. They're going to help to cement your position as a data scientist.

Sanyam Bhutani  55:52  
Awesome. Before we end the call, if you could just mention the platforms we can follow you. These will be linked of course in the description linked in, we can just look you up on LinkedIn, but you should be able to find, any other platforms that you'd like to mention?

Sanyam Bhutani  56:08  
So, so LinkedIn and medium. And I've been also working on Kaggle now, maybe, whatever little time I get from my schedule, because I think I didn't mention here that I kind of, I have to divide my day into a few parts. So I'm also working from h2o.ai, then I do Kaggle also, and then also mother. And so I, my days, kind of revolving around how to manage all the three things. And so I tried to steal time from here and there  to actually do what I like and then also spend time with my kid. And so this is something that I wanted to do every like women out there and everybody who, you know, we don't get time. It's just about how you manage your time and how you avoid distractions from your life. And then everybody has 24 hours and just to make the best use of it. So I as the free time goal as the mother, if I am able to do certain things, I think anybody can do it if I could do it. So that is what it is just a try removing distractions. I am not on Facebook, I don't watch much TV, infact null. And and if I have to do if I feel that, you know, I need a break, I going to work out or I go and take a walk. So this actually gives him a lot of time not an Instagram, not on Facebook. The only social media I'm on is Twitter and LinkedIn. And that also I use it up to a certain limit maybe. So yes, people can follow me on Twitter. They can follow me on LinkedIn on medium. And yes, and I think I'm pretty active on all those platforms.

Sanyam Bhutani  57:59  
I've already wondered how you do it. But thank you so much for all of your contributions to the data science community and and women in Data Science.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:09  
I should say the same to you also, thanks for bringing out such wonderful people and, you know, to our homes, to your interviews and just get to not only we've seen that work on Kaggle and other platforms, but we then now we also get to know what kind of people they are, then, you know, and most importantly, what turntables would have learned is human being they put in a lot of hard work, and they do with a lot of passion, and they're really devoted to what they're doing. Otherwise, I think everybody stories the same.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:42  
I'm really grateful that people like you keep saying yes for the interviews. But thank you so much for joining me on the podcast.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:49  
Yeah, it's been a pleasure. Thank you so much for having me again.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:59  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message. You can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science."

