Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:45  
Hello, and welcome to another episode of The "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I interviewed Dr. Russ Wolfinger, who's the Director of scientific discovery and genomics at SAS, a department which he had started and he leads the R&D of GMP and SAS software solutions in the domain of genomics and clinical trials. In this interview, we talk all about his journey into the field, how his Stats and software development evolved over the years. Russ is also kaggle Grandmaster in the competition tier. We talk a lot about kaggle. His approach to kaggle his his viewpoints on kaggle, and best advice is to new big new joiners, slash beginners. This interview is an amazing intersection of statistics, data science and data science applied to kaggle and the real world. We also talk a lot about kaggle as a platform for learning data science and applying your skills how to get better at kaggle and data science broadly speaking. So thank you to Russ for sharing all of those amazing advises. A quick reminder to the audience. This will have manually checked and uploaded subtitles so please remember to enable the subtitles on YouTube or go watch the video on YouTube. If you're a non native speaker, for now, here's my conversation with Russ. All about statistics, data science and Kaggle. Please enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:24  
Hi everyone. Today I have the privilege on the show to have another statistician one of the best alive today of the ranks, if I may say so, of Leland Wilkinson, who I already had on the show, a data scientist Top Kaggler. These are not three different persons. This is the same person Dr. Russ Wolfinger. Russ, thank you so much for joining me on the time data science podcast.

Russ Wolfinger  2:47  
Thanks a lot Sanyam and welcome from North Carolina here. I do need to apologize I was helping my sister in law yesterday with a construction project. I had this sticky glue like substance Still on my hands. So I didn't want to scare any viewers, if they see something might happen to make a gesture.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:07  
I think you look great. And we can do some deep learning magic, hopefully.

Russ Wolfinger  3:13  
There we go.

Sanyam Bhutani  3:15  
So I want to start by talking about how you got interested in data science. today. You're the director of scientific discovery and genomics at SAS. If I may you been involved in the field for almost close to half a century. Now. Could you tell the listeners how you got started? was what you studied during your university days now? Is it data science? Because it was branded as Stats during your day.

Russ Wolfinger  3:40  
Yeah, yeah. And

Russ Wolfinger  3:41  
yeah, I'm not quite half a century.

Russ Wolfinger  3:45  
Yeah, it's, it's, it's we're really in this amazing time. And I feel so fortunate and blessed kind of going to be where I am. And I think the my career path has been really simple and canonical. I pretty much went from kindergarten Straight to the PhD, and then hired on here at SAS, and I've been here at SAS for 30 years, so that we could we could end the show right there. But over that time period, though, it's just been just a really amazing series of changes. And I, again, I feel fortunate throughout that whole path. I'm gonna have a very loving home atmosphere with a mom and dad who just did everything they could to encourage, encourage us and I've got two wonderful sisters. We didn't have a lot growing up, we grew up, I grew up in Ohio north central part, but a great school system there that I went all the way through. And when I had teachers that led me I was pretty proficient in mathematics. And they allowed me to kind of go at my own pace, which was really awesome. And then I did an undergraduate degree in math at Liberty University, and then PhD in statistics at NC State on the connection here at SAS really was somewhat serendipitous. I really did not know about SAS at all. When I came to NC State, and it just turned out my wife, we decided to go through graduate school together. She's a molecular biologist, PhD. And so we had a nice period there where we were going through grad school together. But I was I was one year ahead. And so I finished up early. I was like, well, I gotta go get some computing experience. This place called SAS demonstrate looks pretty reasonable. And they hired me on and it's been, it's just been an amazing ride ever since. Well,

Sanyam Bhutani  5:28  
talking about your traditional route, if I may, why was it important to complete a PhD after right after your bachelor's? Why did you go along the route of research during the 80s?

Russ Wolfinger  5:39  
I think for me just Kismet maybe in a way I'm just like, I'm this so well suited to it. I always was like a good test taker. I liked school. I liked the classroom setting. You know, I always asked a lot of questions. And again, just Fortunately, I always seem to have really great teachers and professors. So I wasn't really into joy to be around them and to learn from them. And so for me, it was it was a very easy choice I, you know, most I get the feeling it's not as easy for, I'd say most people, for me it really was a very easy and natural path. And it, it seemed to make sense just to keep going. And, you know, and again, I didn't each stage throughout there, I was able to pick up kind of new pieces. Like, for example, I didn't even coming out with a PhD, I didn't have a lot of strong computing experience. But then here SAS, you know, and then at the time, they are just an incredible company. They've been an incredible company to work for that God said, the studio that you see me and now it's just one of our facilities and shout out to the to the studio guys here who are helping me record this. But just the kind of thing we just over the years the company has been extremely successful growing, we've got an incredibly nice campus here. And so, for me, it's just a way I feel again, I just feel I feel kind of lucky. In a sense, just because you know, being born here in the United States just kind of had this nice little path, really not that far from home. And it just worked out nicely for me. So I do what I do feel a sense of responsibility. And when I try to get back and help help folks around the world and thankfully with the internet now, the world is kind of shrinking and we can we can conduct an interview like this halfway around the world. Pretty amazing.

Sanyam Bhutani  7:21  
Yeah, for sure. I want to talk about your research. You did your PhD in statistics. Could you tell us more about your research and how was it like studying during those days because now I would shamefully cheat with my smartphone under my desk. You pick up your concepts during your DS?

Russ Wolfinger  7:39  
Yeah, you're right. The internet was just getting going. This was my PhD years where the let the the late 1980s. And I do remember, in my apartment, my little small apartment near campus, I was able to connect online and we literally had I think it was 320 baud, so you could literally see the characters. Okay, across the screen. So it was just after that I didn't have to do anything on punch cards. Thankfully, I wasn't better like but just right after that. And then I was so excited where I could, I could have a little data set and I could submit some SAS code to this. We had a central Computing Center called tried to talk to UCC triangle, you University's Computing Center, and I was able to submit jobs to that kind of like kind of like an early AWS at the time, but only only running it at 320 baud, but I was able to submit number, you know, submit a little little piece of code and get some results back. But my dissertation was actually all theory. statisticians, we often like to study properties of estimates as the sample size grows to infinity, we call it you know, asymptotic theory. And the two main theorems that we have are like the laws of large numbers, and then the central limit theorem. And I was a certain class of models, I was able to derive some rules for bounding the rates. So kind of you there's kind of bounding roles that you want to do to help as, as the data grows larger, it kind of gives you some rule of rules of thumb for how many parameters you'd want to use, based on the number of observations that you have. All theory, I don't think it's ever really been used much. In fact, I had this was a, I had a, this is my only kind of poor experience with publishing I, I wrote up all my, my dissertation and a couple of papers and submitted it. And unfortunately, I drew what I consider a fairly adversarial referee, who's who sat on the papers for a year and a half. We heard zero, and this guy was stalling. He wouldn't, he wouldn't reply. And I'm speculating, maybe he must have been friends with the editor or something. And they just, they kind of sat on the papers for a long time. And the crazy thing is, but by that time, I'd already hired on its ass. I learned other areas of statistics and published other papers. By the time I got the reports back, I was like, This isn't even worth it at the time, and I had kind of moved on. But beyond that it's been. I do even though, despite some of the problems with the peer review publication process, I do think overall it's a great way to disseminate you know, knowledge gains and research that people are doing. Although I must confess I do like I like also like the computer science model of, say submitting to conferences. That's another nice way I think and of course archive now and things like that are ways to get around if you do so anyone out there you know, trying to publish don't be discouraged if you happen to draw some some bad referees for one, one reason or another that the process is somewhat subjective, I'd say.

Sanyam Bhutani  10:38  
That's great advice. Talking about knowledge. I think you still active learner one of the best on kaggle What's your favorite observation of the change of learning methods over the years? And maybe maybe one like and one dislike towards how we learn has evolved over the over the years? Could you?

Russ Wolfinger  10:57  
Yeah, that's a that's a good question. And I Realize even though I was a good, I would consider myself a pretty good book learner or classrooms, classical classroom style learning, my favorite way to learn is just to have a problem, you know, be habit literally have a problem that focuses your mind. And this is where kaggle is just so appealing, you know that they're able to set up some type of predictive modeling problem from a sponsor. And then your whole goal is to is to solve that problem. So you just bring you start, then you go on a big search, you go, you look to find any thing that you can possibly imagine that might have bearing on solving that problem. And with that as your goal, but then it also helps you filter away a lot of things because there's so much out there, right? It's overwhelming the amount of material that's out there, but with a with a problem, focus. You can see a certain amount of theory, although it might be interesting. You're like, I don't that's not going to help me right now. I'll make a note that it's there, but I'll let it go. But now here's something it's like, oh, I see immediately how I can use that. And man if you if you do that You know, several times over, I feel like you're you're actually you know, your knowledge kind of grows like a organically and almost a tree form where and then you, you once you've used a method and applied it to a problem, you often have it for life. So I'm really big on the kind of a prop, a problem focused approach to learning. and problem solving, I think is just maybe at the heart of what we do. And for me anyway, that's just just my observations of others. I think that's a fairly appealing wait way to learn.

Sanyam Bhutani  12:33  
I think the other thing that Internet has imposed on us is the imposter syndrome. Beginners, like me really get scared of, maybe this scary competition is not enough for me, maybe this problem is completely out of my reach. How do you think people like us should approach any problem, for example, a new Kaggle competition where we have 3000 people and hundreds of grandmasters going on the competition?

Russ Wolfinger  12:58  
Yeah, it's it's a good point in there. There certainly is a social aspect and man, it is a it's a kaggle competitions now we're so extremely competitive. You have to, in a way you have to have a dose of humility about where you're at, you know, and if you are a relative newcomer Well, I went through it myself though because I, you know, my first Magg,e competition, I was a fairly new fresh PhD in statistics I wouldn't like I'm gonna, I'm just gonna, I'm gonna win this thing, no problem. Punch it punch a joker, Joker data science guys. And I literally I just, you know, kind of got my tail kicked, that I tried everything I could think of it horribly. And I believe most lot of the top carriers have gone through an experience like this early on, and then you just have to like, suck it up and say, okay, you know, let's let's reassess here. Eat some crow. Be humble. Be humble about it. reflect on what happened where and then, man, you know, kaggle is just a gold mine of knowledge in terms of like, in most most wet most times. winners are top performers are often very gracious in sharing their solutions. And that's just an incredible way, you know, maybe that's a good, that's all. Think about the problem solving method I mentioned before, you know, you just pour your heart and soul into a problem, and you still can't solve it very well, maybe you don't finish so well in a kaggle competition. But then then go go look at what the winners did talk about a rich learning experience, you can just see you're like, all, you know, that's what they did. And I've had many times where I've actually been very close to what the winner did, but then I decided for whatever reason to go a different way. And I missed, you know, I missed the kind of the magic as it were. And I think that's pretty common. And the other thing is just to be realistic about kaggle. You know, I mean, we're talking, you know, if you sort the scores, I mean, often they're separated down in the third or fourth decimal place, you know, so the true difference between finishing fifth and finishing, you know, 200 and 50th is likely negligible. So you shouldn't Put your whole personal value on your on your Kaggle ranking.

Sanyam Bhutani  15:05  
But the upside also is the leaderboard, as I said, doesn't lie at all. People from anywhere can join for free compete and maybe even walk away with the prize. I know a Robot AGI, the 18 year old carry Grandmaster who's been winning competition even before he was 18. So anyone who's in high school has done a PhD from any walk of life can come to kaggle if they are interested in participating.

Russ Wolfinger  15:28  
I know, that's just it's just an amazing kudos to Anthony and the team there for this that's just that color, just a brilliant, brilliant platform that takes advantage of the modern internet or modern data science. They now offer computing facilities for free. It's just really amazing platform and it's, it's had a very positive effect on my life personally over the last several years. I almost I felt like I'm almost kind of back in school again, you know, it's learning and having a lot of fun. And I do think a really interesting aspect to it is it does it does it send to Do appeal to males more than females. And I'm still not quite sure why I think maybe men tend to be a little more competitive, as it were just generally speaking. And so maybe we're just so naive, and, and so cheap that we love to see our name on the leaderboard, you know, someone else jumped out, I was like, I gotta I gotta get ahead of that guy. So I think women tend to be much more sensible, do that kind of kind of action motivations as a little bit silly.

Sanyam Bhutani  16:28  
But I'd also drop a few honorable mentions maybe after the interview to women Kagglers. Also, the ones that are there also are in the top of the leaderboard when they get down to competing.

Russ Wolfinger  16:39  
I know you should definitely try to interview some of them because there are some brilliant women data scientists out there. I know here at SAS, I thought I'd say it's roughly 5050 and I just thought I mean, to me, I love having a colleague that almost just thinks in an orthogonal directions from what I do because then you can, you can really make progress on problems. Where each of us are kind of limited by what we know and the techniques that we have. And it's easy to get kind of stuck in a, in a little intellectual cul de sac, as it were and a colleague with a different background and perspective can often just pull you out of that and set you on your way and achieving better performance. Again,

Sanyam Bhutani  17:17  
so we discussed about kaggle kaggle is really the home of data science. I don't think we need to debate that many people join it to become maybe get a taste of data science or become a good data scientist. up maybe a good applied data scientist. Why did you join kaggle? Why did you started competing on kaggle?

Russ Wolfinger  17:36  
Yeah, I actually got a so I spent my career in working here professional software development and I've got working at the jump division of SAS, JMP, which is a nice point and click interface for for handling mostly tabular data. And then my group my individual group, we work on two vertical products called jump genomics and jump clinical cut. And we had just recently finished with jump genomics has a predictive modeling framework within it with with nice cross validation methods and things like that. We just kind of wrapped up a redesign of that. And we were looking for problems to try it. Try it on. And it turned out, I don't know if you've heard of there's another competitive data science organization called dream, dare. Dare am, I think IBM is involved closely with them and sage bio networks, they put on competitions, mostly focused on science. And so that since I was already we were doing a lot of genomics things we came across a competition where they were, we were predicting prostate cancer survival, based on biomarkers or actually clinical clinical data as well. And this looked like a nice problem. And it turned out to be a competition and I was like, Okay, let's try this competition with our new framework. And we actually ended up doing pretty well with that, but that dream The Dream competitions tend to be fair bit smaller than kaggle ones and then saw I can't remember exactly how I found out about kaggle somebody told me I got on there. And it was it was at that point is like, Oh my goodness, this looks This looks so incredible. And at that point I was hooked.

Sanyam Bhutani  19:16  
So it to your first failure on Kshhlr, did you decide to accept the challenge CPMP calls it a legal drug is that when you got your new got addicted to Kaggle?

Russ Wolfinger  19:26  
Yeah, well, and for me again, maybe this is a bit of a fortunate timing. This was right whenXGBoost was coming onto the scene. And you know, Anthony, in your interview with him mentioned there's kind of this transition period where for a while random for us was were dominating a lot of that data science competitions. But then when XGBoost came out, and actually there was a GBM there was a GBM module in there in between where that that was, that was clearly starting to offer performance and competitive gains. And that's what so I did like, like I mentioned, you know, I had that first humbling experience I looked back and I went to look at the winners. And I believe the top five people all use next Jeepers. And I was like, What? You know, okay, what is this, I didn't even know about it. I was like, I was using all the lot of classical statistical methods regression, and the, you know, various various techniques that I was aware of. And I really, I was familiar with basic decision trees, but these boosted trees seemed to offer a little bit more in terms of functionality. And so my very next competition, I'm like, Okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna I'm gonna try XGBoost on this one. And I didn't even realize but I ended up getting my I think I got a solo gold and my first my first time of my second kaggle competition, it was the Rosman one. And I just, I mean, I remember that competition. I was just amazed at how well actually boosts worked. You know, I was doing my I had a lot of servers running with different cross validation schemes. I was doing some feature engineering, trying to really make sure my model was going to generalize in a man I was I'm so I think maybe that was a defining moment because I think Think on the public leaderboard. I was like 35th got, you know, right and then when that when the private was revealed, I jumped the fourth. And I was like, Oh, that was so I mean, I literally jumped out of my chair. I saw that happening. My wife was like what it what's going on in there? And I was like God look at that. So it's really you know, I think maybe that was a bit of a one of my gold defining moments and then after that it just like all okay, I'm going crazy now.

Sanyam Bhutani  21:25  
You You definitely hold a record rate in meddalling. I'll mention the figures for the audience. I think it's one of the best on kaggle you had 42% Top 10 finishes 61% gold medals and 85% net of winning a medal on entered competitions not on any other competition. What's your secret? Is it your background? Is it is there any other secret that led to this?

Russ Wolfinger  21:52  
Yeah, and thank you for doing I've never tried to compete those those ratios. There are a couple duds in there, so that would probably mean realistically might even be better. But maybe it's somewhat my personal mindset where I tend to like, I tend to be pretty focused. So I only ever do one competition at a time. And when I when I commit to it, I mean, this is kind of a philosophy my whole life. Usually when I commit, you know, when I get interested in something, I want to do it really well. And I'm willing to do everything, you know, just pour my heart and soul into it, do background research, try to try to remove other distractions that are preventing me and you know, just just focus dive as deep as I possibly can on a certain problem. And I think for something like kaggle that helps where, you know, not a not a new competition might come out, I'm like, Nope, I'm not even gonna look at it, you know, not even. I'm just gonna stay focused on what I'm doing. I think that likely gives me maybe a little bit of an edge over the maybe the typical calculator that just likes to jump around and try different things. Or maybe there's, I know, there's only a few guys I'm aware of that can really do multiple competitions. Well, I don't I'm one of them. I'm just too kind of single minded I feel to pull that off. And so that I guess that that's probably where it where it comes from to a certain degree. And I am inspired like there had there are certain competitors I've noticed several from Japan say and then a few others around the world who they just seem to have this mindset where they don't even submit that often right? They'll they maybe do one or two to get to get a benchmark, and then you don't hear from them. But man, there they are at the private leaderboard right up there, you know, because they've been, you know, that they don't get caught up in the leaderboard drama and you know, trying to see their name in lights early on, they tend not to overfit. Yeah, and you can tend to do better than in the end. I feel like those are those are pretty general principles that most people can work off of.

Sanyam Bhutani  23:47  
I'm sure, winning competitions takes a lot of focus. There's a lot of talent and skill as well, but like you mentioned it it's a lot of focus for you, focusing on one single competition. What competitions Do you usually like to enter will Shortly talk about your recent gold finish. But what competitions grab your attention? And which ones do you like to participate in?

Russ Wolfinger  24:08  
Well, you know what the statistics background and that naturally the tap, the tabular ones are the most natural ones. To me. That's what I think when I just think of data. That's what I tend to think of as a nice table of numbers. So those are always a consideration and I was fortunate I was thinking back to my graduate school days at NC State, and I was actually surrounded by some of the best apply time series statisticians in the world that time. Sastry, Penn tulip, Peter Bloomfield, my PhD advisor, Ron Golan, was a really well known econometrician. We had Dave Dickey have got a famous statistical tests for unit roots. These guys are just my professors, you know, but I realized looking back, and for example, Professor Pam toolless class, I mean, literally one semester course I had a book of books worth of notes, you know that killed us. But But he was an expert in a kind of classic all the classic arena models and things like that. And we just, we understood those things inside and out. And then Peter Bluefield was an expert on the frequency domain side. So we immediately we do a Fourier transform and learn all the all the beauties of working in the frequency domain. So I feel very comfortable with time series. And even though the amazing thing to me is how well the boosted tree methods work on time series, which intuitively you wouldn't think that would be true because trees tend to desta to you know, they tend to interpolate and shrink Yeah, the various cells but boosted trees are actually this does rely on good feature engineering you actually I thought, you know, you got to put in, well form lag lag features and other nice things. But probably my my favorite most comfortable competition would be like a tabular time series. But may I'll tell you I did I had done several image based ones were traditionally To me, they were just unbelievably fun and incredible that you could take, you know, these modern deep learning networks, I had access to some nice Linux servers here, but I could just get them cranking away. And just learning all the all the crazy architectures and pytorch I, you know, the keras, TensorFlow pi torch trying to learning those frameworks. And then I start, I'd say my favorites, probably pytorch right now, it seems to strike the right balance between you know, encapsulation, but also giving you some flexibility to go in and, and try to play with the networks a little bit, which I think if you're going to gain that edge and a competition you've got out, you may want to go in and you can do pretty well just with can networks but then if you're really going to going to nail it, you often have to go in and and think hard about the problem and then make some make some tweaks and adjustments. And that's so much fun. You're almost like net network engineering, I call it where you can go in you know, if you haven't got a good set of features and then then a a to network. That's, that's a foreign For Success,

Sanyam Bhutani  27:01  
definitely, there's this balance that you just mentioned about knowing the tools, knowing how to apply them and knowing the theory. And I think right now, beginners get stuck in the trap of continuing to learn the theory. How do you suggest this strike the balance, because there's this tremendous amount of knowledge out there, and it's put out, it's packaged in a way that you'll always feel that you there's something else that you need to learn before you can become better. For example,

Russ Wolfinger  27:28  
I know it's a tough problem. And you know, we all we all only have 24 hours in a day and then certain amount of brain cycles that we're going to cycle through. So it's worth you know, you got to kind of see where you're at at the moment. You know, if you're, if you're just if you're just hell bent on performing well and a certain competition, you may, you may decide to let some of that, that theory just go by the wayside to say, I was literally going to only do things, they're going to help me predict better and climb the leaderboard. Whereas, like, for example, for me this past year 2019 I didn't compete as heavily as I as I had in years before. And I, I actually it was a little more enjoyable for me, I decided I just took a few competitions, a couple of my didn't even actually even compete. But I still followed along. And I was I was I was a more in a research mind, where I had some things I was working on here at SAS, using that data to try some things. And for me, personally, I get I easily get sidetracked with a, you know, I see something in a problem where it's like, oh, now I want to implement software that we can use here at SAS to offer our customers and so that can be for me personally, but but that's part of my job. So I'm able to kind of leverage research questions like that into work. But you have to each each competition and problem you're dealing with is different and you have to kind of keep it an internal sense of what your what your overall objectives are at that time in your life. You know, and your other responsibilities to your family and other ways you're balancing your time. But there's your like, you said there's so many interesting theoretical research questions and it's been in sometimes it's like, maybe maybe you're, you're like, Hey, I'm not so worried about doing as well in this competition. I just want to learn this theory. I think that's perfectly fine. Why not? You know, and that's where you are in your life at that point. Do it. And, you know, chase your curiosity. In the end, maybe that's, that's a more satisfying path. And I think it is good. I've had trouble a couple competitions, right. I think I'd probably definitely overdone it in terms of my wife has said she threatened to like an inner my family intervention, you know. Take your take your fingers off the keyboard, Russ, you know, we got we got we gotta go talk about this. And so I've been trying to strike a little bit more of a balance more recently. And I have I unfortunately, where my children are now grown and out of the house. So I have had a little extra time to spend on things but still, there's still a danger of overdoing it. So I do have to struggle. I struggle with that at time for sure.

Sanyam Bhutani  29:57  
But you mentioned you're allowed to Kaggle at work. I think that No secret is it?

Russ Wolfinger  30:03  
I have been able to and I've been just been so fortunate here at SAS. Just throughout my career, I've always been an r&d. So we do we take you know, they are they are we take the art seriously. And a lot of that research involves, you know, spending some time with the problem, trying to look at what the state of the art is leveraging that back. And I've been fortunate to have a series of really great managers back when my boss now is one of the billionaire co owners of the company. And he just gives me pretty much complete freedom to pursue things I still don't want to manage our team we've got we've got day to day duties with our software products. But I have had some freedom to be able to go off and do some cabling, at the same time trying to trying to be responsible with what I'm learning and leveraging that back to into the company and sharing knowledge both internally and externally.

Sanyam Bhutani  30:51  
You just mentioned I like to call this the on kaggle versus off kaggle data science. Do you have any examples of how what you learned kaggle impacter of kaggle data science work, did you have any takeaways from any competition that heavily impacted your professional life outside of Kaggle?

Russ Wolfinger  31:12  
Well, for me, it's easy for me because I mean, I'm working at a professional software company. So I mean, literally all the state of the art techniques that I learned on kaggle. And the media bearing on things we're doing here at SAS, and we, we offer a nice, we have a nice suite of data science tools, where we've been reengineering, a lot of things to work in the cloud. And so we have some really, and this is across the company, my little group and jump, I've got certain things that I'm really interested in, for example, just jumping on a mouse based product. And I think there's actually still a lot of room for improvement with you know, let's say you get a brand new tabular data set from kaggle. Where do you start? And you know, Anthony was mentioning we don't want anyone to start with a blinking cursor. My view is, maybe you don't even want to say Start in a Python notebook. Maybe, maybe, maybe it's better. Audio is actually my secret weapon for kaggle competitions. I open that table up and jump in and do some I can do some very. And within 10 minutes, I can get a very clear sense of what's going on with the data, some problems, outliers, already ideas turning for feature engineering. I may run some a little bit of sass code with things that I know. So to me that, you know, just where do where does one start, when you have a new problem? I think there's a lot of room there. And I do, I'm actually pretty big on the power of the mouse. If you think about, you know, what, little babies one of the first things you do is point, you know that that that paradigm extends, right? We now have the cursor. And in fact, my boss john saw recently had an article entitled what's the point where he draws a fun analogy with Harry Potter, and he's one you know, he could Harry Potter can just point that one at something and magical things start to happen. And that's part of our philosophy with jumping the red throughout the rest of SAS or we want to use both the best of coding and writing a well form code. But there's still power to be, I think, to be tapped into and untapped potential with with the mouse.

Sanyam Bhutani  33:14  
Awesome. Now, coming back to competitions, do you have any favorite? I like to call them battle stories or any competition? And how have your approach and views on calculable as you competed over the past few years?

Russ Wolfinger  33:30  
Yeah, there's a lot I think. I've really enjoyed just every competition I've been in. I guess. A lot of the joy comes with teaming. And I tend to have I've had this marvelous teammates tend to be small teams. And you just get to meet you know, one of my one of my good friends that I've met through kaggle is to meet to meet your Poplawski. Just a very he's like a quiet genius guy. You see him on the street you wouldn't even notice but this guy is unbelievably good with I think coding image competitions and we I think we just I think maybe the first one we teamed on words the the the fisheries competition you know where we had to the pictures of the fish from from from up above. And you had to predict you had to look at look at an images of fish and predict what kind it was for, for tuna and other types of fish. And we teamed on that we just had such a fun time, you know, exchanging ideas and going back and forth. And then occasionally when the deadlines approaching you're scrambling to try to get your last model to fit. And I've had a couple cases where I've literally made my final submission just like maybe one minute before the deadline. So it generates a lot of excitement and of course there's always excitement when the when the private leaderboards revealed. So that kind of thing. I think just overall just just being being fun and we dimitra and I and another good friend, who I haven't got to meet in person, but a great guy Jonathan, we teamed up on the Zillow competition and that was a lot of fun where we were just We're engineering features trying things and, and that when I get around here, I got everybody asking me how much their houses worth now and I'm like, I'll just go to Zillow, you get their algorithms improved as a result of that tygo the two competitions that they ran.

Sanyam Bhutani  35:16  
Okay. You're one of the best statisticians, if I may on to why why do you continue to kaggle still today?

Russ Wolfinger  35:25  
Oh, well, I don't know if I consider myself we've got there is a there is there still are kind of these two cultures going on. And I I've been trying to kind of bridge between the two or least travel and, and being a commercial software companies a little bit of an unusual career path for a statistician, but there is still a very vibrant, active statistical community with brilliant we've got some very brilliant theoreticians, and there's a really nice battles going on now over topics like p values, and the classic battle between Basie and frequentist statistics, there's a whole, broader discussions around reproducibility. Or in the science literature, you know, there's a lot of lot of controversies around reports that don't reproduce. And so what a lot of that some of that some of the heat from that is focused back in on the statistical methods that are used. And I love these I love and I do a lot of background reading on some of the foundations. I haven't contributed a lot personally, but I at least try to keep up with what's going on and try to come up with sensible perspectives on that, that we can work into the software. And occasionally I'll give a talk or maybe a higher level paper trying to share those. But some of these are really deep, some even deeper philosophical questions about you know, what is what is probability? What, you know, is it is it a subjective degree of belief? Is it is it destroyed describing real world phenomena? There's several other theories around it and a lot of these questions are still kind of open and interesting to pursue and I feel a lot of data scientists, like, statisticians are just concerned with stuff that doesn't really matter that much. But I don't really share that I think there's still, there's a lot of deeper questions in the interface between and I personally tend to not, I tend to think of statistics and data science still is somewhat separate. There's a lot of intersecting that going on now. But at least I know from the statistical community that they don't, they don't view themselves as data scientists. To a certain degree, they may feel threatened or even jealous sometimes because I do think data scientists, they're, they're likely it's a likely much larger crowd. Now, data scientists tend to be much better at selling things. Even terminology, you know, something like, you want to learn about dark knowledge, deep, deep learning, whereas a statistician is going to be like, what's the asymptotic theory of a Mann Whitney used statistics. I think some of that personality things, but in a way, it's all good. And we got We're just in this wonderful time now we're not just statistics and computer science, but domain expertise. People, you know, people from the physics community, social science, we're all kind of converging on the this coat, this collection of techniques. And sometimes it goes by the term AI, you know, or, or Big Data learning, a lot of buzzwords floating around. But in the end, we're trying to solve these, these these really interesting problems. And we've got all the pieces now computing, we got the data, the big data, we've got the theory, we've got techniques. So it's just a wonderful time to be working through these and in solving solving interesting problems.

Sanyam Bhutani  38:37  
And like you said, while teaming up, there are no boundaries on guidance, you could team up with a physicist, you could team up with someone from a different nation, someone even outside of your workforce, and you get access to their brain, they code which I think is is invaluable. That aspect that Kaggle allows

Russ Wolfinger  38:56  
I know and there's that I love this principle, you know, caught there. Almost every kaggle competition, you need to build an ensemble typically, to get that little extra edge. So there's power in diversity and I love the the analogy with humans. You know, when you're building a team, to me, it's about you're often better to have a diverse team. Instead of you know, if I were going to team with someone, I don't want another I don't want another PhD in Applied Statistics that went in, you know, that kind of have a similar path to me, I want someone totally, you know, coming at it from a totally different angle. And that's where you can often make progress. And it's, it's the same principle with ensemble, you know, you don't you ensemble two models that are very similar, you're likely not going to get much of a boost. But if you take two, you know, take a boosted tree, and a neural network on a tabular data, almost guaranteed you Ensembl them, but they're both pretty reasonable. You're going to get better results.

Sanyam Bhutani  39:50  
What advice do you have or What tips do you have for beginners who would like to team up? And what's your strategy for teaming up on Kaggle?

Russ Wolfinger  40:00  
You do want to put some thought into it because unfortunately there are there are some, you know, quote unquote cheaters. And if you you know, kaggle is pretty strict about it. If you team up with someone that's broken the rules, you're going to get disqualified along with them. And that unfortunate that's never happened with me. But it has it has happened with several my friends, so you got to be careful. And I don't know, it's, I mean, it sounds crazy. I guess everyone does this. But if I got someone that I don't know, I'll try to do my own little background check. You know, maybe they're on they got a Facebook page or LinkedIn page, check them out, what's their background, you know, try to get some sense of where they're coming from. Just to make sure that you've got a good team, teammate and then there's kind of also that unwritten rule where you're, you tend to want a team with someone that's roughly the same place as you on the leaderboard. And so, that that's not always the best obviously, it's if you can team up with a with another Grandmaster. That's often a really good experience and a lot of a lot of gems are very open to doing that. There's a very sharp tacklers who have they don't have the points yet, but they're probably just, I mean, in a way, they're likely better than anyone that's kind of a quote unquote Grandmaster. So those are those are the folks that you can find them. And I think that there's a lot of these quiet geniuses out there like dimitra. If you can, you can find one, I team up with them in a heartbeat.

Sanyam Bhutani  41:21  
Okay, now talking about competitions. How do you approach a new problem? And what pipeline? Maybe it might be a general one, or specific to any competition? If you could tell us what pipeline Do you use while working on the competition?

Russ Wolfinger  41:37  
Yeah, yep. pipeline. To me. Uh, well, maybe I'm naive about this. But to me, the very obvious first thing is what kind of data is it? You know, and I tend to definitely make the initial big distinction between tabular data, and then image data versus, you know, maybe if you want to have a third category, maybe signal or audio processing and then that natural language I tend to view those as they're quite distinct domains that would have their own their own pipelines. And then some of the competition's, you've got, you've got multiple types of data. So you have to kind of have multiple pipelines feeding in. And again, I'm most comfortable with tabular data. My secret trick for tabular data, just open it up and jump and start playing around that. And that's not a cotton, we don't really promote job as a data science tool. But man, it's so it's so much fun and easy. And you can just, it's very satisfying to quickly get in there and see what's going on with the data set. Now with image data, and there's no substitute for Look, you're looking at the data, just literally like take a look at some of the images and maybe have ways of scrolling through a lot of them quickly, trying to see what kind of variety you've got, you know, maybe compute some summary statistics on each image and then you can maybe convert you can convert the image or, or NLP data into statistics. Now you're back into the tabular domain, then you can load those into job. And again, if it doesn't come across too well, but your job or any kind of facility like that, where you can quickly take a look at the data and do things like distribution, scatter plots, maybe run some quick regressions, tries a couple quick models, just to see what's going on that kind of thing. That's what I tend to do. And then the hard part really comes in where typically, especially with tabular data, you've got to be able to do really smart feature engineering, that that's, that's hard work. You're just not gonna there, there are the auto ml routines, which can make sometimes they can come up with some decent stuff. They'll get you part ways, but then there's no substitute for just really thinking hard about the problem. You know, what are you what are you trying to predict? what's what's, what's the underlying data generating process that's going on? And I will also put some time into thinking about how was the data created? And this is where a lot of elite you know, you gotta look you gotta go for kaggle you have to check for leaks. They do they do come up in spite kaggle does a pretty good job, I think of eliminating those. There, they still pop up in spite of everyone's best efforts. And that can make sometimes that can even kind of ruin our competition to certain degree or at least change the dynamics. And if you don't find the leak, the leak phenomenon or structure, you're not going to get anywhere on the leaderboard. So you've got to have some tricks for that. There's kind of this whole bag of tricks that over time you start to develop and work on. And so I don't know that's, that's probably about as clear of a pipeline. I don't have any I don't have any real strict one. It's more it's getting there, that there's no substitute for look. A lot of people I think this one on quickly just start fitting a neural network, you know, start with they don't even look at the data yet. And so you can you can get you can get sideswiped by outliers and other weird aspects of the data if you just try to easily jump directly into modeling.

Sanyam Bhutani  44:54  
It's called Data Science for a good reason. [That's right it

Russ Wolfinger  44:57  
is. That's where the science comes in. You can kind of had the mind of a scientist inquisitive. And then of course, you do have to set up your always in the back of your mind coming up with some kind of scheme for cross for validation, cross validation, you do not want to rely on the kaggle public leaderboard to as your only source of assessing models and techniques. That's, that's a recipe, that's a recipe for disappointment for sure. You got to come up with you got to come up with a good internal cross validation framework. And there, you know, the basic place to start would be k fold. But then if it and if it's time series, typically you want to forecast into the future. So there you might just do a single, a single set into the future, it's often a good way or maybe several, several different schemes is often a good thing. Not to not just rely on one cross validation scheme that has a role you can do, just depending on how big the data and how much time you have.

Sanyam Bhutani  45:53  
I also want to ask you this naive question, maybe base or base it on terms of a recent gold finish on the NFL Big Data bowl competition. But what does it take to win a gold medal in a competition both decision making or efforts for anyone who's aspiring to become a grandmaster someday?

Russ Wolfinger  46:13  
Yeah, that is I think that probably is the getting that solo gold competition. That's probably maybe the one of the most difficult things with kaggle. I happen to get lucky. Like I said, I think I was early in the problem is it's getting tougher and tougher all the time, right? Because there's more sharper people on there. I think you've got to be you got to be smart about which competition you choose, you know, try if your if your goal is to get a solo gold. First thing is you got to filter those competitions. And make sure it's one where you feel like you can you can come up with an edge somewhere. And it may or least be able to learn to learn during the competition where you can get there. And then so it also should be maybe it happens to be a domain where you have some extra expertise, external expertise. That's I can be very valuable. There have been certain competitions, like for example, there was a one on fit, you know, physics and chemistry recently. Or if you've got that kind of background, in that that's a natural one to go for, because you may, because these, you know, understanding of the underlying problem can really be helpful and engineering features. And then just this often comes down to feature and network engineering. And so you just have to, and I try, sometimes I will try, like literally, try to sense if you're getting stuck in a rut, and be willing almost in a sense to back completely up and almost start over or go in a new direction. Because I think all of us just tend to, the problem can be intriguing enough that maybe you're making slow progress on a certain path, but then you inevitably are going to like hit a hit a wall and not be able to get any further. And if you can, somehow just almost this kind of like reboot, you know, and almost try to go start from a different place. And going, and the beauty of that is you haven't lost anything. And you can often come up with a second model, but you can then ensemble and then boom, you know, you've just leveraged your way up. So it's almost like you know if you're gonna go solo but you're you want to become a little bit schizo phrenic, you know, and have have make it make up your own team within your own mind and have the

Russ Wolfinger  48:23  
that's the way that's the way I would tend to approach it.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:26  
Awesome, but I'd also say that for anyone, please don't be misled by just becoming a grandmaster even if you close to that, or even if you producing good models, I think I think that's a great takeaway for applying it to real data science.

Russ Wolfinger  48:41  
That's right. And you do want to keep it in I mean, becoming a gaggle Grand Master I mean, it's a it's a nice honor, but it's not it's not the be all end all. I mean, there's much in a way there's much more important things in life and problems to pursue. And so if you can keep it in balance, I do think if you if you stick with it, It will happen, you know, you just kind of just be steady. Don't don't get don't freak out. And there's definitely going to be a lot of disappointments along the way. But just stick to your guns learn every every competition is a chance to learn and get better. And then at some moment, I think there's a right now there's enough rich variety of competitions where I do think it's achievable. I know I think it was two years ago, I did that there was one on the on the power lines. Remember that one? Is the VSB VSB. Yes. Yeah. And I did that one. I was like, for that particular one, I was like, I was asking myself, can I get a solo goal still, you know, a couple years since I got my first one. So that was kind of my goal. And I did I kind of like I said, got got a little bit scared, sell on myself and try some things. I was able to pull it off, you know that that competition was a little bit weird. There was some unusual things, but I was able to kind of that one it was really important to have a nice cross validation strategy because there was a little bit of there was definitely some shake up. And so I think it's doable, but you just have to be, you got to be in a sense discipline and, and be very careful with your time, you know, because like I said, we all have a limited amount of time. So you got to use it as wisely as you possibly can. Definitely.

Sanyam Bhutani  50:16  
What's your take on the now that's opening that's coming up in the public that kaggle is not equal to real world data science? And do you think there's any aspect that someone who's very active on kaggle might miss out who's trying to seek a career in data science? And how can they build a surrogate for that?

Russ Wolfinger  50:37  
Yeah, I think most of that's above you know, bunch of malarkey. Basically, the only the only the only people I would listen to is someone that's actually got in there and competed in kaggle. And done pretty well. There was a grand master, you don't really hear it, you don't hear any kaggle grandmasters or masters making those kind of claims, guys, we know how valuable of a resource it is. And I think It's human nature, if you're if you decide not to do something that might be important, you tend to want to minimize it or put it into a box. I think it's just that we all do that, right? I mean, some, there's a lot of fields that I'm really interested in, but haven't had the time to explore. And just it's a natural tendency to want to make a some kind of simplifying assumption or, or maybe knock it down a little bit and make it not as important. Just I think it's again, it's just human nature. So I tend to discount any claims like that and just a simple fact look at the sponsors of the competition. These are not just some crazy, you know, off the wall, we got big, important companies financial from all different domains, sports, you know, finance, Zillow, places like that, I mean that they are making direct business decisions to invest, you know, serious time and money in the kaggle in a kaggle competition, they wouldn't they wouldn't be doing that if there wasn't value to them. And it's just it's a pretty amazing You know, if you think about it's a pretty amazing community that's that's developed around it. So I don't put any weight on those those those naysayers

Sanyam Bhutani  52:10  
what's the aspect I do think that a beginner might miss out that they can, and that they might miss out by being active on kaggle? And how can the substitute build a substitute for it?

Russ Wolfinger  52:23  
Yeah, and again, this is everyone's a little bit different. I'm not sure I can give perfectly general advice. But obviously you've got you know, you got your core, your core values that you're you're looking to develop and you've got your own life situation. And maybe you've got a family to support or you're looking to build your career. So all these things in a way have have bearing on how active you might want to be with kaggle. You want to view it as a really good resource, but be careful about not getting, you know, over consumed with it. But if it's, if it's a way to kind of especially if you can find kaggle competitions that align well with your Personal objectives or maybe maybe you're doing a research problem in school, like I think one of the physics ones, one of the winners was actually a PhD student in, in astrophysics or whatever. And that's like a perfect, right, that's a perfect setup for a kaggle competition for them. That doesn't happen too often. But if you can kind of stay active and kind of keep an eye on what's going on, you can usually find ones that are complimentary to your goals, and try to do that the right way things are lining up, and you're kind of accomplishing multiple things at once, rather than just jumping on every little cut every kaggle competition that you might happen to see.

Sanyam Bhutani  53:35  
Awesome. Now, I want to zoom out and go back to another topic of software development. You've been involved involved in it for over a few years. What was software development, like in the early 90s? And what's been your favorite development in all of these years in terms of software development?

Russ Wolfinger  53:54  
Oh, yeah, I mean, man, I probably am happiest when I'm writing code. I just thought like, we will continue I think we kind of share a similar spirit that we just love it just so much fun to write software and spec, especially being able to write software that's going to help others. That's just like that's, that's probably one of the most core status, you know, satisfying drives that one has in software is pretty amazing, right? We could write it, you can send it out for free or distributed around the world. There's no cost to literally zero cost to the sending it. So and we've got techniques in the infrastructures now for doing that. In a way though, like when I first started here at SAS, I was we wrote a lot of our original routines and see and I worked we had a we had I actually worked in an E at this nice kind of tricked out Emacs environment where I had my C code on one side and sass output in another and I work on some code, compile it, run it, and in a way that that that that basic paradigm hasn't changed too much. I do. I do a lot of coding that I've been doing some more coding recently in c++ and Then, of course, SAS is also a language. And jump also has its own language ASL. And if you're going to be on kaggle partner, you pretty much need to know Python or R. And so I think those code, you know, software development now is changing to a certain degree. Of course, we've had the explosion of open source, which is MIT, you know, we, you know, talk about competition with the whole landscape has changed. I think, I feel like for us as a commercial software vendor, we've got to be on our toes now and aware of these big trends. And you got the big players like Facebook and Google, dumping out super high quality code in the public domain. And we want to take advantage of that actually, when we can and it's the responsibility is on us to make sure that our software is still work we do we do it is commercial software. So we do charge a licensing fee for but we want to make sure that that fee is worth it, and we feel like it is and you know, no software is free, even though you know, there are we Column at open source zealots that claim that all software should be free for everybody. And I think that's how it starts to get to be ridiculous if you kind of work through the logical implications of that. We've been fortunate, you know, relatively worldwide, you know, overall fairly prosperous worldwide economy and big companies that are able to fund nice, huge open source initiatives. So there's kind of this interesting cycle of feedback between commercial companies and the open source community. I think it benefits everybody if we can do it correctly. And of course, there will be some disagreements about exactly what you know what, how things should be promoted or whatever. But overall, it's just it's pretty incredible time we're in and, you know, the techniques we've got are just really fantastic.

Sanyam Bhutani  56:46  
Leland also mentioned this people often miss out that open source isn't free in the sense that someone is paying the coders to write the code or maybe they're earning from somewhere else that gives them the leverage to be able to contribute to open So many people do miss out on that aspect.

Russ Wolfinger  57:03  
Now I know Yeah, it's it's it's nice. And I love open source. I use it all the time. And you know what one nice little story with Lee he wrote? This was I don't know, maybe 10-15 years ago he had written. Yeah, we all know that, you know, Venn diagrams, right. Yeah, he had read, he had written some nice Java code for doing proportional area events where the size of the circle corresponds to the size of that set. And it turns out that creating that a diagram proportional area Venn diagram is a non trivial problem, that there are certain configurations where it's impossible, but you can you can get a best approximation. Well, we had written some Java code to solve the problem and he had a nice paper, and he was looking for an outlet for it. And it turned out right near the same time, I was working on a jump add in to draw the Venn diagrams. And Lee there was a beautiful calvet collaboration. He's like Hey, why don't you just take our Java code, you know, look loaded in. And then we can distribute all this out there for free. And we did it, it was a, you know, that was one of, to me, that's a really nice story where he was he was willing enough to share that code openly. And then I shared our ad and even though you need you need job to run it, but usually you can get your hands on that fairly, fairly readily. So just a nice example of someone like me being just open hearted sharing the code, and there's many a bunch of people have used that at it and and complimented complimented us on the functionality. And we like we acknowledge him, you know, and all that, all that in there. So I just think that that's the kind of example of the kind of things that really are possible and can really make a positive impact on the community.

Sanyam Bhutani  58:47  
How do you feel about the part that things that maybe you started during your PhD days can now be done in a single line of code? Do you do you feel salty about that? Well,

Russ Wolfinger  59:01  
You can always write a function around

Russ Wolfinger  59:04  
reduce anything? I don't know, that doesn't mean there, we have made progress certainly in the way we think about data analysis. And like, there's still big problems about how do you approach a problem? What are the most important aspects? What are the things can go away? And I don't know that, you know, counting lines of code can get a little bit off balance about your only metric. So but certainly, the real question is what what's like, a language like Python, you know, what's the proper scope for functions? You know, how much should a good Python function do for you? How much did it require you to set up around it? That's, that's difficult. But I do feel like Python seems to have struck a nice chord with the community now and it's been pretty amazing to see its popularity rise. I mean, ours also got really strong tradition all the way back to Bell Labs and some really incredibly intelligent statisticians and others. Related folks who had the original s language and it kind of morphed in our, and it's got its own paradigm to with so many interesting factors. in SAS, we've actually set the SAS language actually was, you know, you hear about online learning, you know, with with data kind of streaming in. That's actually the design of the SAS Data step back in the 1970s, which a lot of people don't even realize. And I kind of taken it for granted, but you kind of look at it like Oh, so there are there are things that we've learned that are kind of they get reinvented in other terms. So it's fun to see that happen. And it tends to validate concepts that get reinvented tend to be tend to be strong ones that we want to pay attention to. And even though they may have go under different languages or have slightly different variations, they tend to be the things that advance the field.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:00:47  
Okay, now, we're talking about another field that you have been enrolled over the years. What has been your favorite development in stats and how have you seen the hype change over the years of statistics

Russ Wolfinger  1:01:01  
Yeah, I don't know, it's, we're in this weird time now, like I said, I think I think statisticians are feeling they're like, man, they're kind of getting I think for many years they did. They didn't really respect to us if I could use that as kind of a strong word, but they kind of just felt like the data scientists were just, they were doing silly things. They were building these big predictive models. Now, I think there's I think there's mutual respect that that have been developed and increased and, like some of the some of morones, brilliant statisticians like the guys in the Stanford from the Stanford department, tips, Ronnie and hasty Brad Efron. Those guys have, I think they were the original pioneers of kind of building this bridge between the two communities, and even things like boosted trees. You know, we've got Leo breiman, and drone Friedman, who kind of came up with the original theory. But then it took the University of Washington group to kind of finally get it all coated in a nice open source framework that exploded. So we get these, we get these things happening. But it's, I mean, for me personally, I still feel like there's some tensions there, which I'd like to overtime maybe try to alleviate. And I actually, I don't mind kind of living in between the two worlds because it's kind of, I feel like it's a rich, it's a rich area for research. And there's a lot of really intriguing problems that come up. And you gotta admit, the data science community is a lot of fun, you know, we're on some slack channels and stuff and mixing it up with some silly, silly silliness. That's the kind of thing that makes life and and, you know, day to day life, a lot of really enjoyable. And there's those kind of things in that in the stat world as well. And instead of such as we tend, we do tend to be very geeky and nerdy and stuff to probably maybe not quite as much as the as the are. We tend to be more so than the data science guys. So geek, I guess geeks are going to take over the world, you know, eventually anyways, why not?

Sanyam Bhutani  1:02:56  
Talking about life, Well, generally, you'd also Brazilian Jiu Jitsu expert, how do you find the time and balance for all of these amazing things that you are active across?

Russ Wolfinger  1:03:07  
Oh, oh, yeah, thanks for bringing that up. I actually I actually haven't been I haven't been training and BJJ for several years now, and I'm okay much out of shape and fat. But I'm in a ball. I'm in a bulking phase right now. But I really, there's actually, and I've always been a pretty good I've done competitive different sports and competed in different things like BJJ over the years, and I find there's a lot of competition that's actually kind of one of the attractive things for kaggle you know, it's kind of a different form, but the BJJ world is really amazing to some of my some, some of the best guys I think I've ever met. Not to mention, those are the guys you want with you if you're walking through city streets somewhere. But there's a lot of parallels with with lert like learning BJJ it's a pretty amazing art where I don't think a lot of for people that aren't familiar involved. No striking. And it's also designed for a weaker or stronger, you know, smaller opponent to be able to handle someone bigger and stronger. And to me, those are really appealing aspects. I don't really I'm not interested in punching somebody really nor do I got a lot invested right here, don't want to get punched. But so it's a grappling art but it's a lot. It's very technical. And it's been described sometimes even as human chess. And so I like there's actually a hole and when I was into it, I would spend a lot of time on I know there's a lot of a lot of people are putting out videos and content on different new different moves and systems that you can use and there's a whole really competitive framework. And then of course BJJ is one of the key components of all the mixed martial arts fighters of these days. Now there you got it, you've got to be able to punch there obviously. I actually when I watch I do watch some MMA fights sometimes that I actually contract I think most fans I actually like it when they go to the ground because There's a hole when it when they get on the ground, there's a whole new dynamic of leverage and techniques that you have to follow. And if you don't, if you don't understand those principles you're going to get you're going to, you're going to get messed up pretty quickly. But I do like and I do still follow a little bit and I've got in my basement, I've got a mat, I'll go down there and do some drills a little bit myself. And every one of these days, I'll get back into it. But I love I got up there's a really nice BJJ community here in the Raleigh area. And some of the best guys I've ever met. feel a little bit rough around the edges. But guys I'd much rather hang out with and some other crowds.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:05:36  
I think it's also analog is to being competitive anywhere. If you're down on the ground, and you start just throwing your fits around. That's not going to help you as much as keeping your comment putting in technique. And this applies even outside of just professional fights, I think.

Russ Wolfinger  1:05:54  
And I'll think about it like you know, when something goes poorly on your kaggle competition, you just tend to want to, you know, you just tend to flail around do stupid things where? He said, No. So there's all these really interesting to me really interesting parallels amongst human you know, human competition. And this applies, you know, not what we're talking about data science, competition sports, but we're talking in the business world. And even more importantly, maybe even across the political world, where we've got really difficult conflicts and issues, right, I think, you know, being being level headed and learning how to do today data science well can. Who knows, I mean, a data scientist, I feel like as data scientists, we may be holding the, you know, some of the strongest keys to the future and being a very strong and important position of responsibility. And when you do accept that and realize it, and make sure that we can develop good techniques for handling problems and the good being good, good solvers of them.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:06:51  
For sure. What do you foresee for the future of data science and statistics, broadly speaking,

Russ Wolfinger  1:07:00  
Who knows it's good. I mean, it's it's going to be at the appeal, it's going to be kind of that the epicenter of you know of things for the next several decades, probably we're just in this period now, where we've got data flowing in from everywhere. Anyone that's going to be a serious player has to be has to have some quantitative skills, to be able to interpret data that's coming their way. And this is, I mean, pretty much it, this name, any discipline, you can think about, everyone's got data now, you've got to be able to handle it, you got to be able to think, and I do think there are some differences in philosophy between, say, straight predictive modeling versus what I consider maybe more general statistical thinking, which I tend to view the ladders, maybe a little more broad and more targeted towards problem solving. So that those kind of skills to be able to think statistically, and we've got some job actually has some new materials around that. I think those kind of skills are going to be super valuable important into the future. It's hard to predict exactly where things are going to go you know, because we get you know, breakthroughs happen and jumps. Yeah. And we've got amazing things down like self driving cars and all these AI, reinforcement learning things that are happening. And I think the matros said he's been flying. He's been flying some of the drones through through these race courses and stuff. So I mean, that could think about bad alone could could impact the modern, you know, how the next there is a war that breaks out, that's going to be at the heart of it. So I hope it doesn't come to that. We've just enjoyed a relatively reasonable time of peace, but there's still these. I worry, there's tensions growing across the world, even within the US where we're pretty, you know, we're split politically, and we've got an election coming up later this year. So I hope we can be sensible about it and move forward.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:08:43  
I think there's a flip side also, maybe data central becomes so normal, similar to websites now. No one thinks of Rockstar website developers websites are there you're surfing the web without even realizing that Hey, baby, someone putting a lot of effort towards a how good this looks on your phone.

Russ Wolfinger  1:09:00  
No, I know. Yeah, there's all these questions like that. And I think that's great to observe that and it, we need to all I think every data scientist needs to, you know, even though we get so in love, like the problems, like how do we need to kind of focus out and realize where we are in the world, and actually the positions of responsibility that we hold even though, you know, maybe you're just a lowly data scientist and some company doing something, it turns out you, you may be the key to that company's, you know, doing the right thing. And actually, you may have a better understanding of certain key problems than anyone else in the whole company, so that, you know, take advantage of it.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:09:36  
Okay. Now, this has been a great interview, if you were to give one basic advice for someone who's just starting their journey in the world of data science or calculus, what would that be?

Russ Wolfinger  1:09:49  
Yeah, I've actually been thinking about this a little bit. I was thinking, I think maybe the starting point is a little bit of time of self reflection. And I think I get on my kids About, they just get so distracted, you know, they get in the car and they just turn up the radio and then they've got their texts going and friends and they never had, they never often don't take the time just to get find a quiet moment, maybe even when you're drifting off to sleep, just think about your own personal values and your you know, purpose, things like that is get your life kind of aligned. And then from there, kind of see how data science might apply to that. And again, looping back to what we mentioned early on about problem solving. Now, goodness knows we got immense number of problems in our world, and we need more people to solve. We need more problem solvers that we need, that we do anyone creating problems. So take a problem solving mindset fight, find a problem that's interesting and passionate to you and go, you know, go and then use pull all the data science tools together to help solve that problem. And in a way I like that's what I like about kaggle. It kind of compresses that into a nice little three month or six month time periods where you can do exercises But then the important thing from there would be to go and tackle something really big and important. You know where you live. Which reminds me if you don't mind I wanted to ask you something I was interested I saw in on kaggle I think they did some demographic statistics on the typical calculator was like an, I think a 26 year old in the mail. I guess you're a little bit younger than that. Maybe but uh, what I was curious what what do you see? And maybe you would be willing to kind of what do you see the future of data science being like in India and what's what's the scene like there now?

Sanyam Bhutani  1:11:32  
I think I think I'd be a bad person to answer this. I don't look 22 but I'm 22 and I used to freelance a lot overseas because used to lag the right amount of opportunities that trust me, but I think that's definitely changing now. We, H2O.ai has the headquarters in Chennai in India. That's the Indian headquarters and we also have a lot of companies from overseas establishing their offices in India. Starting their Data sciency teams, of course, the startup scene is pretty big in our, we call it the Silicon Valley of India, Bangalore. And I think that that reflects on kaggle as well this, this shared enthusiasm of of data science of tech on casual we, India, India has a large population. And that also means we have a large number of CS engineers or software engineers and all of them title are trying to learn about data science, they definitely go to kaggle, which I think again speaks of Kaggle's greatness, that it's also empowering a large portion of our country to get into the field.

Russ Wolfinger  1:12:40  
No, I really, I really like that. Thank you for that perspective. I'm fascinated by how we've got I just like this night, the 2020s are just going to be a good you're going to be pretty incredible. So I'm excited to see how it's gonna play out.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:12:52  
I hope the scene gets better. We'll definitely not there. I think we much behind the states for example, compared to The number of opportunities but I think I am personally tried to contribute a lot to the community. And I say this not to brag, but to maybe inspire other people to start communities try to talk to your friends in, in the Silicon Valley, bring their culture back to India. That's what I'll be doing next when visiting the valley attending as many meetups trying to bring back that culture just because I'm fortunate enough to be able to afford that too. I hope that changes in the future, and I think it will.

Russ Wolfinger  1:13:27  
Thank you. Yeah, thank you for putting on this podcast. I think it is a real service to the community and best wishes for us for future success with it.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:13:37  
Thanks so much. Thanks so much for seeing us and thank you so much for joining me on the podcast.

Russ Wolfinger  1:13:43  
Thank you, Sanyam.

Sanyam Bhutani  1:13:51  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message you can find all of the social media The links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science"

