Sanyam Bhutani  0:13  
Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science.

Sanyam Bhutani  0:45  
Hello, and welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I interview co founder and CEO at decision.ai. Dan Becker, you might know Dan as the creator of Kaggle learn where he enabled, or actually democratized a lot of machine learning courses that he created on kaggle.com/learn. It's still one of my favorite platforms to learn. So please go to kaggle.com/learn if you're curious to check them out. In this episode, we talk all about Dan's journey into the field. Dan's work at Kaggle, where he created Kaggle learn. We talk a lot about MOOCs, open online courses. What does it take to become a data scientist? And how can MOOCs come into the picture for you? How can you think of ideas or projects that can help you build a portfolio? We also talk about Dan's new venture decision.ai, which he's just recently started, Dan already has been a contributor to Keras and TensorFlow and has done projects, consulting projects for six companies in the fortune, fortune 100 list of companies. We of course, talk about how that was helpful in Dan's new journey. If you like to decision.ai please go to the website decision.ai or go to wide or why.decision.ai not where you can find out what tasks are they dealing with. For now, here's my interview with Dan Becker. Please enjoy the show.

Sanyam Bhutani  2:28  
Hi, everyone. I'm really excited to have global educator on the show, Dr. Dan Becker. Dan, thank you so much for joining me on the "Chai Time Data Science" podcast.

Dan Becker  2:37  
Thanks for invitation. 

Sanyam Bhutani  2:39  
So I want to talk about how you got interested into machine learning. You've worked across different roles over the past few years. Before we talk about them. I think you did compute a computer science education followed by a PhD in economics. Where did machine learning come into the picture for you?

Dan Becker  2:56  
You know, I in some sense, I've had two periods when I did machine onyx my first job out of college. This was in 2000. So machine learning was not nearly as well developed as it is today. 

Sanyam Bhutani  3:07  
It was the winter period?

Dan Becker  3:09  
That yeah, that's right. And we, I was working for a company that was trying to use neural networks to help come to companies find the best time to post items on eBay. And which we, yeah, that was our business model. And, uh, we didn't really know what we were doing, both because the state of the art for neural networks in 2000 was not what it is today. And then also, like, we were not on the cutting edge. And so that was roughly a failure. And I switched from using neural networks to just saying we're going to create simple like, counts of different variables and like very simple day to day visualizations, and just like very, very big, not even regression, just very basic statistics. And that was successful. And so I came out of that in like 2001 or 2000, to say, machine learning is never going to work, it's never going to catch on. It's like, just like the future is going to be. We're going to have a lot date in the future, but the future is going to be that we just do a very simple things with our data. So in 2004, I started a PhD program in econometrics, which is sort of statistics for economic applications, okay. And I used linear regression and the description like things that today you and I would say are pretty, pretty basic are pretty rudimentary. And then in 2002, graduated 2009 around then Kaggle, which was still just getting started, had a competition of the $3 million grand prize, and I figured I've just spent five years working on

Dan Becker  5:01  
Data Analysis and building better models. And so I into that competition. And if if maybe I don't know exactly, let's hit 1000 people, when I, when I started that I my first semester in like 950th place or like really very much in towards the bottom. And I was so puzzled because I thought that I was doing the best techniques for purchase there were. But machine learning had developed so much in the intervening nine or 10 years that I had to go back and start learning machine learning at that time, because I part of it was that I was just finally sort of competitive, but I couldn't believe that. I was like towards the bottom in this kind of competition. And that inspired me to really get back into machinery.

Sanyam Bhutani  5:47  
And could you talk more about that experience? I know the results were awesome. What was that period of working on the competition like for you?

Dan Becker  5:55  
Yeah, so I started it in right last, almost last place, like I said. 

Sanyam Bhutani  6:03  
Yeah.

Dan Becker  6:03  
I'm a and I started reading the forums, I think that reading Kaggle forums is such a great way to learn machine learning. I start I got elements assistant school learning, which is, you know, a quite somewhat advanced textbook, and it was a really long, I don't think Kaggle has competitions that are nearly that long anymore, but it's two and a half years or so. And I just would slowly creep up and up and I had a job that was working all day, but at night, I would just work till 2am on the competition, and on the weekends, I just dedicate all my time to this competition. And a and about and I've gone from like 950th place to about 10th place with a year left and then as hired by a company does consulting to work work for them continue competing on the continent to do it under their company name, and then also to train their consultants who are using very classical models. So their consultants could do projects with really modern machine learning, then that was great. It was great for so many reasons. One is it meant that I had to dedicate like, a lot of time during my day job to doing kabah competitions. And after that, like my progress very quickly, we ended up in second place. But a lot of that was like, if you can dedicate time at the job to do a cop shows you'll do much better. And then the other thing that was really amazing to me, and I think it's probably the one thing that I carry with me as an advantage most even today is that because I was working with their consultant and they have consultants working all these different applications. I got to see someone doing marketing for a financial services company and they, and they would come to me and say, hey, I want to do machine learning, but they were described a use case. And then I work with them to do it in a better way. And then someone else would be doing something about preventive maintenance for me facture. And, and so I just saw all these different use cases, because they're all these different teams who are working with me. And so it's really nice to get to see the breadth of how machine learning is used to different large companies. And then also, yeah, we have you, we had a great result. I mean, it was great, and also in some ways is frustrating. So there was a way they had a competition is there's a $3 million prize if the best score was better than a certain score to no one got better than that score. So the grand prize ended up being $500,000 for first place. We were in second place which had no prize at all. 

Sanyam Bhutani  8:52  
Okay. 

Dan Becker  8:53  
And so that was, that was disappointing. And I think that I at the end of that said, I couldn't never pour my heart into Kaggle competition or put my time to competition the way that I did into my that one first competition because it was I worked so hard and ended up, you know, with a sense of disappointment. And after that, actually a lot of what I did and all the subsequent competitions was trying to build. There weren't a lot of like automail products, like there are today as far as all this stuff from most of my subsequent competitions I tried to do in this auto ML where it said, what if I don't even look at the data, I built a model that is very programmatic way, those models that are competitive and at least that way, I don't know, I thought that was just like a really interesting problem to try and solve. And that was what I did for a while after my first competition.

Sanyam Bhutani  9:49  
Interesting. I also want to ask you, many people wonder if they should invest time into Kaggle. How did you see the results that you achieved on Kaggle affect your profile to maybe recruiting managers or the outside world was it Kaggle?

Dan Becker  10:05  
Yeah, I mean, one of the things I first started competing in Kaggle, I wanted to use it, you know, I had a job and I had a PhD, but I wanted to use it to approve my recruiting profile to have more job options, especially because I wanted to move to Colorado, which is where I live now, but I wanted to have more options in a different place. And so it worked for me. And in fact, prior to that, my I got a job it I got a job at this consulting company EXL because of because of competing Kaggle then I got a job Academy because of my hedonic Kaggle. And I got a job with DataRobot because I did a Kaggle and I got a job back at Kaggle as it got aquired by Google as a result of title so for me, everything every job I've ever gotten, but ever but every job I've had in the last 10 years has been because of Kaggle. And at the same time I think that is probably most people say this is going to be hard. Going to complete my profile. I think the competitions is probably not a good not a strategic good or strategic decision for them. You need to be probably the top five or so percent for it to, for it to really like advance your career options and maybe the top 1% and 95% of people just thought logically won't mean the top 5%. And so I think that I think you learn a lot I think that it is, some people really enjoy it, I know that I got really pulled into it. I think that if you want to build a resume or a profile, the best thing you can do is study the right place you it is on Kaggle is to find data sets that are things you're interested in and do work that you find interesting. So if you really like let's say cricket, then you should make and there are you know how many cricket. data visualizations are there I calculate, not a ton. 

Sanyam Bhutani  12:05  
Yeah. 

Dan Becker  12:05  
And so you could create the single best database visualization on cricket in the world and like it because a database ation is something that, like you can send show to someone, even if they're hiring, but they're not like, deep into machine learning. And they're just like, wow, this could just be really interesting. And like, they can process it, what you did and why it's interesting. I think that's actually much more powerful. If you want it to be machine learning. You could do predicting, you know, what's going to happen happen and that's cricket match. know if it's, if you're in the US and you really like American football can be American football. If you really like movies, it could be about movies, if you really like if you really like literature, you can do some sort of technical analysis, some literature, and now you are able to do something where you don't need it's not quite as competitive. You don't need to be in the top 1%. It is very competitive field in order to make progress towards something that will get you hired. So I think that's probably a better strategy for 99% of people. If you're going to be the top 1%, then; 

Sanyam Bhutani  13:14  
Yeah.

Dan Becker  13:15  
You should do that.

Sanyam Bhutani  13:16  
We'll come back and talk about this topic a little bit more. But first, I want to discuss how should people educate themselves? You created Kaggle learn. First, what what even led you to making that decision? I am sure that there might have been a few MOOCs floating around at that time.

Dan Becker  13:33  
Yeah, there are a lot of MOOCs floating around. The actually I already created a course for this website data camp. I created a deep learning course for them. You know course, first of all, the courses that exist for the most part are informed by what is taught in academia. Most academic professors are not like Nice way of his most academic professors have never held a data science job. Most of them. In fact, most of them have never even consulted not not only have they not had a full time job, most of them have not even worked closely with solving a problem in industry that someone is willing to pay for. And as a result, they repeat a lot of academic stuff, which you know, is good if you want to get a job teaching more people the exact same thing. But if you want someone to pay you because you're going to solve problemsfor them. A lot of the MOOCs cover stuff that you just is I think, if anything a distraction and, and I always felt that the number one thing see you let's say your goal is your goal is either to get a job or do you really, really good at data science. So if you have one of those two goals, first of all, the way to get really, really good at data science is to get a job because once you get a job then you can whenever you were spending before and now you're spending an extra 40 or so hours doing data side, so you're going to improve much more quickly. Alright, so now no matter which of those two goals you had, really, your shorter term focus should be getting a job to get a job, I think it's really important that you have a piece of work that you can show someone that looks like the things that they want to that they want to pay you to do. So they can look at it and go this guy actually could do a really good job this paragraph do a really good job at the the job that I needed to do. And so that means you really should be focusing a lot of your time on creating portfolio pieces. Now, if you're starting, you don't know any Python. You don't know anything about machine learning, then you can't just for me to say we'll just create something interesting is not is not that productive. And so we I could have to learn to say what is the quickest path to get rid this has to get a job that's it to get a job is to create a portfolio product. What is the the quickest path to teach someone just enough that they can do really interesting work. Most of the courses at Kaggle are four hours. And that means like, if you take a MOOC, most of them last more than four weeks, but then last month, most of them you spend months on them. So if we prepare you to do interesting work, at the end of it, you put in a couple afternoons, that is just such a huge win. And that means you get to those more interesting parts sooner. And so that was, that was the goal. And I think it's also nice that if you are on if you're using a platform that charges you for their courses, they really need their courses to be substantial because that's how they make their money. And for Kaggle, we could make really short courses because our goal is for you to just do interesting stuff. And so you don't it's much easier for cattle to quick, very short question. says that help you just do interesting work than it is for someone who is business. Well;

Sanyam Bhutani  17:05  
You mentioned the end goal of getting hired, which I'm sure is for everyone. But there's this fear of how these MOOCs are sold, which is they also have a really nice marketing, which makes you feel Hey, maybe I need to know this. And I call it the infinite learning loop. How can we avoid that when you keep feeling that hey, maybe I need to take another course before I'm good enough. Or maybe I also need to know this. Maybe I need to know TensorFlow Pytorch production and all that. 

Dan Becker  17:33  
Yeah. So first of all, I think that this, especially for someone who spent most of their life in school, if you're if you're 20 or 25 years old, you spent most your life in school. So the thing that is most natural for you, is to keep taking classes because the end you know, I think that the thing that a lot of people struggle with in various forms is procrastination. And I was reading a book about procrastination. They say that one of the times that you procrastinate most is when you're about to start something that sort of uncomfortable. And so if I said, you really should try and get to doing a project that you are going to share with the world, that's going to make my testimony go, maybe I'm not ready. And then I can say, as a result, I'm going to take some classes and the classes could be hard, but I'm not uncomfortable. It's sort of going back to something that I've done a lot of in life, and I'm not concerned, I've just gotta leave, fail at it. So I think that you are better off. Hey, I think that take a lot of classes, in many cases, a form of procrastination. And you should say I'm oing to start a project. If I had to take, you know, an afternoon of classes, that's fine. I'm going to start a project in the next week. That's it. You You started practicing the next week, you have not put off and you said Certainly that is your goal you have not put off. Moving towards the next step very far. Now you're going to get there. And you're going to say, okay, I saw something that used computer vision. So I'm going to look at a thing that did computer vision. And it uses TensorFlow, or uses Pytorch. And so at first, maybe I'm going to start by like copying and pasting some of their code and playing around with it, and seeing if I can get somewhere without stepping back and taking a whole class. And if you can, great if you can't, then that's a moment when you say what is the least coursework I need to do so that I can make progress on doing an interesting project. on a topic that I forgot a topic that I care about, happens to let's say, use computer vision, and that's what I want to do. So every point now, I think, there's the founder who's also a great Kaggler of one of these websites, and there's a lot of data science education, Set Data, DataQuest' founders', Vic for Vic Paratore? I think incredibly highly of him. And he told me that he really liked my model where someone who's learning, instead of the teacher pushing information onto them saying, okay, you need to learn this 97. So let's add to this other thing. You instead say, I want you to start a project, and you're going to pull the information you need at the time you need it. Or I guess if we, if you phrase it in computer science terms, it's like, lazy evaluation. I learned it when I need it. And also, I think that you're going to have much, just I think, I've read a lot about how people learn, I think you're going to have much higher retention. If you learn something because you know, where you have a context where you're going to use it, then you're excited to apply it whereas if you Just take months of course work on end. It's really hard to retain that and you're not using our ongoing basis. 

Sanyam Bhutani  21:07  
Yeah, this there's also flip side to it. Many people haven't found the interesting project ideas it was what advice do you have for them? How should they come up with ideas?

Dan Becker  21:19  
I think the they should think less about what do I need to do to get hired even if that is a big picture goal, that for a moment. So what is a topic in life that I find interesting? And can I find data about it? And yeah, and and I guess the other thing is Kaggle has, I don't even know anymore, but probably 10 or 20,000 data sets, I would guess, kinda so many data sets in. So if you're looking for inspiration, just browse Kaggle datasets is one way to get there. But I think it's even better if you said what is hat something that I find interesting, it's workouts, what can I find something about weightlifting, then maybe say what is a way for somebody if I really if I'm someone who cared about fitness and weightlifting, like, can I find someone's data where they looked at their progression over time? And can I find the data set and predict when they're going to get injured or when they're going to have a lot of progress? And if that's the thing that you that you find interesting, then like, work on that. I think you'll enjoy it more, you'll find more interesting. So that would be my recommendation. 

Sanyam Bhutani  22:44  
Okay. 

Dan Becker  22:45  
A lot of you're probably some people just struggle if I said, what's something that you care about what's going to be finishing the probably some people who struggle to answer that, but I think most people can answer that.

Sanyam Bhutani  22:56  
Yeah. And maybe if you cannot find a dataset, why not go here then create one via note script online forum where you have fitness advice or bodybuilding advice on there and create a data set and see what you can do with that.

Dan Becker  23:10  
Yeah, yeah, that's a special. Yeah. Like you said, You found a forum. I think you'd find something super interesting there. 

Sanyam Bhutani  23:17  
Yeah. I think there are multiple ways of it. I was discussing with a friend. We maybe if you're a foodie, why not go ahead and scrape reviews, do something with it. But once you start playing with the data, ideas start to come then you start thinking of it in unique ways. I think that's that's where, like you said, the passion or interest aspect of it comes to do.

Dan Becker  23:40  
Yeah, and well, one of the things that I found when I first did my first competition, is if you'd asked me ahead of time, how many days of work do you think that you could do? How many hours of work to do before you just say, I've like gotten to the edge of everything that I consider doing it. And it'll be done. I think I would have said, I don't know, after I didn't a lot of space, because I would have said I could imagine to a 20 to 30 hours, and then being out of ideas. But once you put in 10 hours you go, you've like just working with a data set, you go, I've got all these new ideas. And then once you start using up all those ideas in a profit incentive, and you'll get new ideas. And so for the most part, if you scrape data, at some point, you while you're scraping, you will say can I a notice that this one person is like the person who posts the most one like it's kind of weird to have some ideas specific to them, or you'll just keep noticing things that will spark your curiosity to for the next part of your project.

Sanyam Bhutani  24:44  
To give an example outside of it. Even with this interview series, I keep getting surprised of how many new ideas I can come up with even while doing this interview. It's it's sparking a lot of ideas in my head and I can confirm by you invested into something and if you're passionate enough, you'll keep finding ways of new things. 

Dan Becker  25:02  
Right. 

Sanyam Bhutani  25:03  
Now, coming back to Kaggle learn. How did you decide the curriculum? And what sort of efforts did it take for you to put out the final product with the for our short time limit of it?

Dan Becker  25:16  
Yeah. Yeah, the first couple of courses was pretty obvious what to do. So internet machine learning would be the first thing. I think that maybe we did something about pandas. And part of that, I guess, is also for people who are thinking about how to get their first shot. I was talking to a friend that has difficulty hiring data scientists. And I said, a lot of people can talk about the math, but we spend 80% of our time cleaning data in pandas. And so if someone isn't efficient at using pandas, then nothing else matters. And so we put together a pandas course soon after that. And then a deep learning course when kaggle is funny only three or four years ago kind of did not have GPUs. And and Kaggle started having GPUs available in their notebooks put a deep learning course using TensorFlow. And then, for a long time, it was a combination of one. Just like if you look at what we have now, what heuristically seems like it's missing missing. I think I was always surprised the extent to which our beginner courses expect them to have more traffic. 

Sanyam Bhutani  26:30  
Yeah.

Dan Becker  26:31  
Than advanced courses. But it was so so so much more traffic. I think our most advanced course is probably the machine learning expandability course. And something like intro to to machine learning would generate, we get 50 or 60 times as many users as machine learning expandability and so that instead of that really made us think that we should done a lot of beginners courses because there's so many, there's just so many people who want them. And then, you know, over time, we had other people who joined the team. And so some of it was just asking them what's something you want to work on? And I try and find the intersection of something that someone is excited to work that someone is excited to teach or create. What do we need a and I guess, really those two? And then, really, when we first released kind of learn, we didn't have any of the automated checking of your answers or automated feedback. You were just writing answering me with an explanation afterwards. But a couple of years ago, we switched. And this was largely an effort by someone who's working with us a guy Colin Morris? is great software engineer and data scientist, but he built a lot the functionality so that when you, you, we ask you a question you do write some code changes that question. And then we examine your code to either give you suggestions on how to improve it or to tell you that it's right. And I think that even today, a lot of the effort is not in the explanations. There's so many push on towards data science or other cognitive books, there are so many places that you can get real explanations. But we work really hard on trying to make the hands on exercises, interesting exercises. A lot of them are scenario based. So instead of saying, how do you get the the R squared from point seven 2.75? We say you've been hired to figure out where the right location is for a new Starbucks. How do you use a machine on how do you do this one he's a machine learning model. And then how do you explain that to the person who was not a data scientist? So we really tried to use more scenario based exercises. So that one is interesting and to if someone is looking to get a job, they actually know what it means to do work in the field data science, spend a lot of time trying to come up with more interesting exercises. And then also writing that checking code to give you some feedback on what they do.

Sanyam Bhutani  29:34  
Okay. Can you mention a few things that you're most proud of what Kaggle learn has achieved through the huge audience and community that they've got to see?

Dan Becker  29:44  
Yeah. There are a few things so one is I haven't looked at the numbers in a little bit is something like 35 or 40% of Kaggle users in any given month, took a Kaggle learn course, either that month or the previous month. So there's all this content is getting created in a really large fraction of it used by people who wouldn't have been able to create that content if they had not taken our courses. And so I'm really proud of that. Like I said, this is advanced course, machinery expandability you get very little use, but I had a lot of people tell me that they think it's a really tell me how great it is. I just in the last week, I met someone who said that he recommends it to people who he works with at least once a week, because they are starting to do machine learning, but they can't make sense of their models. And they come to him and say like, how do I know if this is like if this thing is working in a reasonable way, and he says that he recommends it every day or every week, and it's like made his job much easier because he doesn't actually try to explain these stuff. I met a few people who have told me like how much they appreciate it. The guy Hamel Hussain is a fantastic data scientist at GitHub. And he said he was also competently on it. So the frequency with which that advanced course teacher recommended is quite exciting to me. I think Michelle, explain abilities are really important topic. Our data visualization course is just a super really interesting course. That was put together not by me by the person who's now in charge of Kaggle learn, Alexis Cook and she, I think she had experienced creative courses. She'd worked at Udacity before coming to Kaggle, but she like really came into her own just created like the most interesting exercises. So that I think the The exercises that she's created today are more interesting than even the stuff that I did earlier in in the history of kattiline. And I'm really proud of it. They got handed off to someone who's doing such a good job with it.

Sanyam Bhutani  32:13  
Awesome. If you were to pick one thing that maybe can be learned or MOOCs broadly miss for data science aspirants who are using them, what would that be? And how can we fulfill that?

Dan Becker  32:28  
You know, I've been surprised at the number of people who I know who either datasets boot camps or took, took had. They say we're trying to get into the field of data science. And then their first job was not building really high powered machine learning models, but was instead just handling massive amounts of data, maybe in spark and then trying to build pipelines so that when someone changes the scheme some database somewhere, it doesn't cause everything to all these errors like property two and three. And then that'd be their first job. And then if they did do machine or they get a title or something like machine learning engineer of the data scientist, and that's again, how do we, if we have a machine learning model, and we want to serve it so that a lot of people can use it? How do we do that in a way that like, doesn't break or when we request a prediction of the data is of the wrong type, or, or doesn't have really very latency? Or sometimes it's like, a few milliseconds and sometimes a few seconds. And so a lot of people are going into this field of machine learning engineering. I think that how do we get models deployed? How do we ensure that keep working? How do we handle really, really large data sets so that we can narrow them down into something that's really small enough to be used with machine learning is really valuable and I just, there are probably MOOCs about them, but I haven't seen them. And it's I think this general field of deal engineer Machine Learning Engineering is probably the one place that we've missed out the most. Part of the challenge is that for a lot of that stuff, you can't do it in a notebook. 

Sanyam Bhutani  34:18  
Yeah.

Dan Becker  34:19  
There's like you need an interface. But you've got where you can have a whole library of 50 different Python files. You in many cases need access to a lot of compute. And that's just not the interface of a lot of the platforms that most have right now. So that's our I don't know exactly how to solve that problem to create a data science engineering course, where you could deal with that demand for computational power and data that need for complexity. But I think that's probably the thing that we can most do to improve this, like the kinds of education that are available online.

Sanyam Bhutani  34:58  
I think that video of getting a job and getting your hands dirty first comes in, because again, the definition of a data scientist varies so much across every industry, every company literally. 

Dan Becker  35:09  
Yeah, Totally.

Sanyam Bhutani  35:11  
Now coming to your new work as a data scientist and CEO, can you tell us more about decision.ai and what's it all about?

Dan Becker  35:20  
Yeah, um, you know, a lot of this is, like I said, I did consulting for some period of time, and I got to see a lot, a lot of applications in real business. The field is also so young, that are really large fraction of people are getting into the field to come at it from a university or college education. Or they come at it through MOOCs, or they come at it through maybe Kaggle competitions. And so they've had a lot of experience, either on some theory, or if they do it for cattle competition that's a little more quiet, and that is trading models. But when I think back to where I actually saw this applied in businesses. There are a couple of areas that are just really under taught and as a result under prioritize. So one of those is the software engineering of getting these models into production. That's not my specialty. And that's not what we do. The second part, which I think is at least as important, and I'm just constantly shocked, as I started thinking about it more that we don't see more attention paid to this is how do we take our model and use it to make better decisions? So let me give you an example. Let me give you a few examples. But I think a lot of times I'll give one example. People have trouble sort of extrapolating what what's what's that look like in other cases, so a patellar era line has a bunch of tickets are either tickets for for an airline or hotel rooms for airfare for hotel. If they don't sell those, by the time of flight takes off or by the time, but by the date that someone was saying that hotel, then they don't make any money off off the that sort of inventory just vanishes. So suddenly that both industries but those industries do today is they use machine learning to predict for each hotel room in the future or for each airline in the future. How much demand is there? So let's say I'm an airline, and I could say I can either sell x many tickets for $400 a ticket, or why many tickets for $500 ticket. And then like, that's the they use all this fancy machine learning to forecast how many how many tickets sell each credit. And then the next step is how do you determine which of those numbers is better? And if you've got a fight that takes off in 90 days, there's all this complex, dynamic optimization to figure out, is it better to sell fewer tickets at a higher price today and have more tickets left over? Or? And then what the right thing to do then is well, depends on what what will my demand be tomorrow, and one minute, maybe two days, three days, four days from now. And so, to account for all this optimum to do all this optimization, and make the most revenue, in a world with a lot of uncertainty and dynamic uncertainty is quite hard. And so we are trying to help companies who could be using machine learning today to make prediction actually go from I've got a prediction to I've got a good decision or a good decision. Make a wall that actually improves my bottom line. You the first, the very first call that I had with it with someone just tried to after I started this company was with someone with a company financial services company, they're building a phone app. And their phone app is going to show depending what you're doing in their app, it's going to show a marketing or promotional message at the bottom of the screen. 

Sanyam Bhutani  39:25  
Okay.

Dan Becker  39:26  
And I said, Well, how are you determining which message to show and the are currently paying to use, they've got a bunch of messages, they're going to use a machine learning model to forecast which messages so which message is one most likely to click on. Now, that's not a very good decision making more because you could have one message that someone is a little more likely to click on. But if they click on it, it doesn't provide a lot of value either to them or to the financial services company. It's like oh, kind of convenient like reminder And then you can have some other message where someone is going to click on it, there's a little aesthetic. If they do, they are likely to do something that's either very valuable to them or very valuable to the company. And so the idea of, of just using, like, the easiest thing to predict is is not is not improving your bottom line. And to do a better job on improving your bottom line is, in many cases, a hard problem. And that's, again, something that I thought I thought about a lot in the last year even before creating decision on AI. But now founded a company around it because I think I have a really good approach towards doing this type of dynamic optimization. You know, in in environment where you get a lot of unknowns. You need to a different trade off. Maybe being wrong in one direction is much better or worse than being wrong in in some other direction. But we really want to optimize for the thing that the business cares about. Not something which is easy to turn into Machinery Learning model.

Sanyam Bhutani  41:10  
You also mention you went from three different industries, hotel airlines, to finances to apps, how do you decide? What industry are you going to target? And which all industries do you target?

Dan Becker  41:23  
Yeah, um, well, so first of all, we are, I left Google about a month ago to start this company. So we are in the very, very early stages of this. The application that I currently feel is a couple of applications that I think are really, really compelling. So one of them is in supply chain management for food. So you run a restaurant, and if you order too much of an ingredient, then it's gonna spoil or maybe you already last next week, but now the food you serve is not as fresh. And if you order too little of it, then then someone comes and says I'd like to I'd like to get a plate of whatever the the pasta or the chicken. And you say sorry, we're out of it. And so for them to figure out the right amount of each ingredient to send to each of their locations, is a hard problem. And even if I had a machine learning model, and it predicted, you're going to need 100 pounds of rice, or 1000 pounds of grace in the next week, does that might mean you buy exactly 1000 pounds or do you buy a little bit more know and know that you can just store it? And then maybe you need to, yeah, so this is all then they sometimes have shipping delays so that maybe you should actually order more rice than you expect to need because You want to be prepared in case the shipment come late comes late the following week. And so there's all these moving parts of requires a lot of different models that you can stitch together. And so I think it's a technically interesting problem to figure out how you how you account for shipping delays, and forecasting demand and forecasting. All these different pieces of that decision, forecasting changes in cost. But then also it's really really important for them to get it right. If they over if they overstock to keep it around, the food says fresh, and for some, some restaurants, they're really concerned about that. So that's true for restaurants, true for food manufacturers to talk to someone who touches someone who makes a bottled beverage, but they want their ingredients to be fresh. They want to ship it to a store quickly and then have some buy in drink it soon after, so that the whole The drink is fresh. So I think anything with supply chain management for food is something that we're really interested in. But at the same time talking to, I'm still talking to people in a lot of different hats in a lot of different areas. Ad tech being one of them, retail being one of them, still trying to figure out what the what our focus is going to be. And some of that is. Yeah, some of that is still to be determined. But the people I've talked to when most struck by how much they will benefit from combining machine learning, with combining machine learning, being able to stitch together a lot of different models, and then do optimization. To make the best decisions is a lot that isn't supply chain management for food.

Sanyam Bhutani  44:45  
Okay. Out of curiosity, how big is your team right now? And what's the team size?

Dan Becker  44:50  
Yeah, right now it is two people. 

Sanyam Bhutani  44:53  
Okay. 

Dan Becker  44:54  
Um, we intend to build a piece of software. That's maybe a year from now. But in the meantime, we're doing Pilot Projects, to figure out them it is a lot of this going back to your previous question of what are the applications where people benefit from our approach the most. I think that is probably the law rather than the exception of people were using machine learning today, for them to be able to benefit from our purchase takes a bigger picture view of how they apply machine learning, potentially, a view where we say, the thing you care about, doesn't all fit into one machine learning model, and we need to find a way of combining them. Well, you know, we will, I think a lot to learn and to iterate on in the next year. And then we'll expand once we have had a few cases where we make customers wildly successful, and we say, okay, now we're ready to build a product, so that anyone can do that without our help. But in the first in the next year or so, we're just going to be doing a pilot project for customers to help them either approach.

Sanyam Bhutani  46:03  
Okay, so what part of the operations do you handle right now? And what does it be currently in your life look like?

Dan Becker  46:09  
Yeah, we are. Like I said, we're sitting we're so early on. At this point, I am still trying to, to just sell our first project. We have a few people who were in the middle of conversations with, I think it's quite likely that a couple weeks from now, we'll have someone signed on for the first project. And at that point, my colleague and I will, will be focused on taking their data and building machine learning models, working with people in their business so that we understand the business can be built all the domain knowledge they know into all the machine learning models, make sure those models connect in the right ways. Make sure that we are building visualizations that even not just a data scientist, but people who are just business people can understand it helps them make better decisions.

Sanyam Bhutani  47:03  
Okay, so I have two questions that I personally struggle with my work as a freelancer, how do you personally get the word out there? And secondly, in terms of pricing, so it's literally a project that you're working on and you're not a salaried employee. How do you decide how much is a project worth? Because the company itself might not have a good idea of how much of what the project is going to be worth after they invest into or maybe wildly outsource it.

Dan Becker  47:30  
Yeah. Okay, so, two questions. So one is how much does the company how much is the product worth, what was the first question again?

Sanyam Bhutani  47:38  
How do you put yourself how do you put the word out there? How do you attract customers?

Dan Becker  47:43  
Yeah. So first, I just say I is unclear that I tell you what I'm doing. It's unclear that I have a great approach. I do have the good fortune of because of my work on Kaggle because of my work on data camp. You know, for a while I was a do consulting for a while I have a lot of connections on social media, I've met a lot of met a lot of people in the field have been in the field work been working in the field of machine learning for about 10 years. And so a lot of it is is just going through connections that I have. A and either people talk to them about how I can help their company or tell them the types of things that were kind of see it, they know others. So friends and friends. I think that's a harder strategy for someone who hasn't been working in the field for for so long.

Sanyam Bhutani  48:49  
I think that that's how your advice of building a portfolio and if if you can, and you did write a lot of blog posts, but someone who's just getting into might write some blog posts and that's how the internet knows what your plan is, hen people start talking to by default on any social media when you put it out.

Dan Becker  49:04  
Yeah, that's actually right. Then there is some extent to which I use LinkedIn and find I tried to find people who are geographically close to me who are working so I said I'm interested in supply chain management for food. So the food manufacturers, large restaurant chains and so on. So to some extent to which I proactively reach out to them with with an offer to talk to him about what we do, we created a page it's why why decision.ai and I posted that on on social media and that got a lot of it got a lot of traffic, I think there was four or five days where it was getting about 150 or hundred 60 people in our and so that got a lot of traffic and there's a we had a a contact form that people at the bottom of that can say I got a lot of contacts thing. Now, if you do something that you're interested that you find that you think people will find interesting, could probably make sense to put a contact form at the bottom of it. 

Sanyam Bhutani  50:16  
Yeah. 

Dan Becker  50:18  
That's a little bit harder if you're hosting it on GitHub, and probably hard if you're hosting it on Kaggle. But even even just a call to action, saying, If you found this interesting, here's my email address. Probably can't hurt. That seems like a good thing to do.

Sanyam Bhutani  50:32  
Yes.

Dan Becker  50:35  
But I'm still, I'm still actively trying to figure out what the what the best way is to, to find the first people that we work with. And then the second part of question was, how do I know what it's worth? Yeah, I think both questions are questions where I happen to be, you know, very fortunate place, um, because our goal is to Build a product in the long run a and we're thinking of these primarily as a proof points that we're going to learn a lot from. We have one I've been working the fifth for a long time, I have some flexibility to charge to charge more than I think most. Most data scientists could charge at the same time because I'm thinking about this. As for the long term, it helps us get into a project that we think is really valuable, or where we really want to be able to say we have, here's an example of the success we've had. We will have the flexibility to charge less than I historically would have charged for consulting just as part of our long term strategy for the company. Yeah, all right. Really interesting. I don't know.

Sanyam Bhutani  51:59  
That question actually arises on the fact that I used to think a lot about how should I charge my clients while I was an individual freelancer, but I think it comes through experience, you may be talked to other people who work in the same field and they give you an idea and then you try to assess where you are.

Dan Becker  52:18  
Yeah. Yeah. That sounds exactly right of where it's just I don't know other people who are in similar positions.

Sanyam Bhutani  52:27  
And and like you said, cold emailing, at least for this podcast episode did work. And it works pretty well on any social media. If you if your sincerity comes across in any message. I think it's helpful. You might not get a customer right out of it, like you said, but you might get to know them through tails, connections if if the conversation goes in.

Dan Becker  52:49  
So you say, you'd have had success cold emailing around. 

Sanyam Bhutani  52:52  
I have and for example, even for this episode, it happens through cold emailing.

Dan Becker  53:00  
Okay, I guess cold emailing for this podcast is probably you might be so I think you're might be surprised it's probably not as cold as it would have first seen. Many of us know who you are. Like this podcast is starting to develop a name for itself. We see this on Twitter. Yeah, it's See, I think it's not quite as cold and email as it might as you might think it is. 

Sanyam Bhutani  53:27  
Okay. But also in retrospect also for freelancing, it worked okay for me. What I try to ensure was my sincerity would come across in its purity in the message whenver I'd reach out.

Dan Becker  53:41  
That's great. That's great that it worked. Any other any other recommendations that you would have for either viewers or listeners about just being sincere?

Sanyam Bhutani  53:55  
Honestly, I think I was I was trying to do two things, reaching out to a lot of people and doing community work while writing a few blog posts, so those feedbacks would factor into it. And that sort of helped me create a profile.

Dan Becker  54:11  
That's great.

Sanyam Bhutani  54:13  
Okay, now for everyone from the audience would like to get in touch with you. Could you mention the platform through which we could get in talks with you?

Dan Becker  54:22  
Yeah. Um, so I for someone who wants to talk directly to me, my email address is dan@decision.ai. 

Sanyam Bhutani  54:33  
Okay. 

Dan Becker  54:34  
But I'm also Dan_s_Becker on Twitter. Yeah, and then I'm on I'm on probably the only platform that I use that frequently. Yeah, drop me a line either on Twitter or, or through email.

Sanyam Bhutani  54:54  
Also, go check out decision.ai website. You'll also find a contact over there.

Dan Becker  54:59  
Yeah, that's right. Then I, for anyone who wants more depth on what we do that that page why.decision.ai think is I think we were more technical and transparent about what we do than many, many more detail than many companies are. I think it's a something that is even if you don't work with us, I think it's a point of view about how machinery should be used that a lot of people really benefit from.

Sanyam Bhutani  55:28  
Awesome. Thank you so much, Dan, for joining me on the podcast and thank you for all of your community contributions from your previous life and previous jobs.

Dan Becker  55:37  
Thanks so much.

Sanyam Bhutani  55:45  
Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message you can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to "Chai Time Data Science."

